The Project Gutenberg eBook of Report on the Migration of Birds in the
Spring and Autumn of 1880, by J. A. Harvie Brown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Report on the Migration of Birds in the Spring and Autumn of 1880

Author: J. A. Harvie Brown
        John Cordeaux
        P. M. C. Kermode

Release Date: May 22, 2021 [eBook #65411]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Tom Cosmas produced from files generously provided on The
             Internet Archive. All resultant materials are placed in the
             Public Domain.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS
IN THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1880 ***




Transcriber Note

Text emphasis is denoted as _Italics_ and =Bold=. Whole and fractional
parts of numbers as 123-4/5. Table of Contents was added for assistance
to the reader.




                               REPORT

                               ON THE

                         MIGRATION OF BIRDS

                               IN THE

                     SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1880.


                                 BY


               JOHN A. HARVIE BROWN, F.R.S.E., F.Z.S.,
                JOHN CORDEAUX, and P. M. C. KERMODE.



                               LONDON:

            SONNENSCHEIN & ALLEN, 15, PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

                                1881.

                        Price Two Shillings.




                              Contents

            PREFACE                                      i
            EAST COAST OF SCOTLAND                       1
                SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES          5
                General Remarks                         18

            EAST COAST OF ENGLAND                       25
              SPRING MIGRATION, 1880                    27
                SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES         27
                GENERAL SUMMARY SPRING MIGRATION        31
              AUTUMN MIGRATION, 1880                    31
                SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES         31
                  General Remarks                       62

            WEST COAST OF SCOTLAND                      68
              SPRING MIGRATION, 1880                    70
                SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES         70
              AUTUMN MIGRATION, 1880                    73
                SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES         73
                  General Remarks                       91

            WEST COAST OF ENGLAND                       95
                SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES         98




PREFACE.


The following Report contains a Summary of the investigations of a
Committee appointed by the British Association for the Advancement of
Science at Swansea in 1880, an Abstract of which will be presented to
the Association at its next Meeting.

The Returns relating to Scotland have been arranged by Mr.
Harvie-Brown; those for the East Coast of England, by Mr. Cordeaux;
and the West Coast of England, by Mr. Philip Kermode.




                               REPORT

                                 ON

                       THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS

                               IN THE

                     SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1880.


  "I am fixing correspondents in every corner of these northern
  regions, like so many pickets and outposts; so that scarcely a
  Wren or a Tit shall be able to pass from York to Canada but I
  shall get intelligence of it."--Alexander Wilson, in 1808. (_Vide_
  Constable's Edition, 1831, p. xlix.)




EAST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


_Iceland and Faroe._--Schedules, letters of instruction, and
additional remarks were forwarded through Mr. Alexander Buchan
(Secretary, Scottish Meteorological Society, Edinburgh), to three
stations, two of which, Stykkisholm and Reykavik, are in Iceland,
and one at Thorshavn in Faroe. A fourth more northern station is
secured at Fair Island for 1881, Mr. William Lawrence having kindly
undertaken the work.[1] Our Faroe station has failed us this year,
but we hope better things from it next.

[Footnote 1: At a later date I received a letter (dated 17th March)
from Mr. Lawrence, containing a few items of interest. During the
week previous, "A number of Swans took shelter at Fair Isle, and
a large flock of common Black Crows, with a few Jackdaws amongst
them. The Hooded Crow is the common one here, and we never have the
Black Crow here unless after, or during, gales of wind. Puffins and
Guillemots arrived somewhat later this season, and a large increase
appeared in the number of Gulls. Lapwings appeared, and one Coot was
caught in a very disabled condition. Large flocks of Snowbirds are
seen here. They came very early in winter, but disappeared again till
now, when they have returned. A large flock of Wild Geese arrived
here on the 14th inst. We do not often see them here. Four Swans were
caught; the largest weighed twenty pounds, and the others from that
down to sixteen pounds."]

Printed schedules, letters of instructions, and additional remarks
were forwarded to twenty-six stations on the East Coast of Scotland
and the Shetland and Orkney Islands, making, with the Iceland and
Faroe stations, thirty-nine in all for 1880. With Fair Isle for 1881
we shall have forty stations.

Eight stations on the East Scottish coasts returned filled-in
schedules, against thirteen last year, out of a total of twenty-six.
This shows a falling off from last year. The reasons for this I have
endeavoured to explain in my general remarks further on, under both
East and West Coast. Scarcity of birds is reported from several
stations.

The stations from which co-operation was asked are the following,
commencing with the most northerly. Those from which returns have
been received are marked with a *; those which sent returns both last
year and this year have two **; those which sent none last year but
have done so this year have a † prefixed; those which sent returns
last year but none this year are printed in _italics_. In future
Reports we will prefix to each station the years in which these
stations make returns. A marked improvement appears, however, in the
returns which we have received, these being fuller than in 1879.

We would like, however, to direct the special attention of our
reporters, both on the East and West Coasts, to the desirability of
recording exactly the _directions of flight_ of the birds observed in
every case, so far as practicable, arid to minutiæ of dates, even of
single occurrences. Let us also impress that even a single accurate
return, or one entry only in a schedule, is often of value; and even
if solitary occurrences of birds take place at a station, such should
be sent to me, though the schedule be otherwise a blank. The interest
has this season been better kept up on the West Coast stations
than at the East Coast ones, judging from the scarcity of returned
schedules from the latter. When no schedules are returned, I would
esteem it a great favour if the lighthouse-keepers would kindly drop
me a post-card, stating if there is any reason for no returns being
sent, such as pressure of duties, scarcity of birds, or other causes.

In connection with the migration of 1880, I have to mention that
considerable aid to the work has been given by Mr. James Hardy, of
Old Cambus, Berwickshire. He writes to me (22nd Feb. 1881), "I have
drawn out a scheme of all the memoranda I can find about last year's
migratory birds. I only await a Northumberland and Berwickshire list
to have it ready." Later I received a summary of this from Mr. Hardy,
which will be found at the end of this East Coast of Scotland Report.
As an example of careful and minute field-study it is alone deserving
of the attention of observers, and it proves valuable upon comparison
with the other data. Those reading the lighthouse reports here under
the species, should also compare with Mr. Hardy's local Berwickshire
observations. I beg to propose Mr. Hardy as a member of our Committee.


East Coast of Scotland.

                             Height of centre of
                             light above water.
  4. **North Unst.                  280 ft.   Robert Burnett.
  5.  *Whalsey Skerries.             145      Neven Kerr.
  6.   Bressay.                      105
  7. **Sumburgh Head.                300 }    Wm. Anderson† and
                                         }     John Wilson.

Orkney.

   8. **North Ronaldshay              140       John Tulloch.‡
   9.   Start Point.                   80
  10. **Auskerry.                     110       John MacDonald.
  11.  *Hoy Sound (Low).               55       Alexander Harp.§
  12.   Hoy Sound (High).             115
  13.   Cantick Head.                 115
  14. **Pentland Skerries.            170       Donald Macdonald.

Main Land.

  15.  *_Dunnet Head, Caithness._     346‖
  16.   Holborn Head.                  75
  17.  *_Noss Head._                  175
  18. **Tarbat Ness, East Ross.       175       William Davidson.
  19.   Cromarty, East Cromarty.       60
  20.   Chanonry Point, Elgin.         40
  21.   Covesea Skerries, Elgin.      160
  22.   Kinnaird Head, Aberdeen.      120
  23.   Buchan Ness, Aberdeen.        130
  24.   _Girdleness_, Aberdeen.       185
  25.   Montroseness, Aberdeen.       124
  26. **Bell Rock, off Fife Coast.     93       James Jack.
  27. **Isle of May, Firth of Forth.  240       Joseph Agnew.
  28.  *Inch Keith, Firth of Forth.   220       Robert Grierson
  29.   St. Abb's Head, Berwick.      224¶

† Records and Schedule dating after 22nd Nov. were filled in by Mr.
John Wilson. Prior to this date they were filled in by Mr. William
Anderson, who has been since transferred to St. Abb's Head.

‡ No schedule was returned, but one note upon Swans, in a letter,
proves useful (_vide_ Swan). "No birds struck the lights this year."

§ Schedule returned with the remark, "Nothing of importance has been
observed at this station during 1880." In 1879 a similar scarcity
noted at this locality.

‖ We have lost a good observer here, Mr. George Maclachlan having
left.

¶ I am anxious to receive returns from this locality, not having
received any hitherto. I have to thank Mr. W. Anderson for a very
full return at Sumburgh Head up to Nov. 22nd. I hope he will find
St. Abb's as interesting a locality, though, I fear, the Great Siren
horn, with its unearthly shriek, will prove a great scare to migrants
in a fog.

I am also indebted to many other persons for interesting notes
from various localities, bearing upon the subject of migration. A
selection of these I will take notice of in the following report
separately, under the head "_Notes_," as I consider it advisable to
keep the one set of observations apart from the other. Further notice
of similar observations will be found in my "Third Report on Scottish
Ornithology," now preparing for press and partly read to the Natural
History Society of Glasgow, on Jan. 25th, 1881, being a continuation
of Reports read to the same Society, in 1880 and 1879, and relating
to 1878-79, 1879-80. Many data will be found in these Reports having
close and intimate connection with the Migration Reports proper.

As nearly as can be ascertained, notes have been kept by our
east-coast reporters upon nine species of waterfowl and thirty
species of land birds.

The new feature of this Report is the separate treatment of the
spring and autumn migrations, owing to the greater length of time
over which our reporters made notes. Another new feature is the
obituary--or list of deaths--at the different stations.

In my Report on the East Coast of Scotland, however, I have not
thought it necessary to keep the spring migration distinct, owing to
the comparative scarcity of records on our East Coast, but in my West
Coast Report I do so. Nor have I given an obituary for either coast,
as the numbers on all the Scottish coasts is inappreciable. As will
be seen further on, it is a very different matter at the low-lying
lanterns of the light-vessels off the English coast. At the same time
I sufficiently distinguish between the spring and autumn records, and
where large numbers of birds are killed I make mention of it under
the separate species.


SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES.

I have purposely in one or two instances varied the arrangement
of the statistics under the species,--as, for instance, under the
_Corvidæ_,--thinking that possibly such variation may place in
juxtaposition certain fresh considerations or combinations in our
study, or place these in a clearer light for future comparison.


Falconidæ.--Returns from N. Unst, Whalsey Skerries, Sumburgh Head,
Pentland Skerries, and Isle of May, which, be it noted, are all
insular localities. On Sept. 3rd one Sparrowhawk, chasing small
birds, seen on Pentland Skerries at 9 a.m., fresh S.W. and haze. This
appears the earliest date recorded on which the _Raptores_ visit
the islands on predatory raids in autumn. The only record at Isle
of May was in the month of May, when two "falcons" were seen. On
Sept. 13th a Rough-legged Buzzard (?) flew about all day on Whalsey
Skerries, wind light S.E. and haze; and on Sept. 30th a "Glede Hawk"
(from internal evidence probably a Peregrine) flew about; wind fresh
N.E. and clear; seen at 8 a.m. On Oct. 3rd a "falcon" visited the
Pentland Skerries, and flew round for a time; seen at 3 p.m., wind
strong N. and haze; and on the same date and in the same place, two
Sparrowhawks at 1.30 p.m. During Oct. 14th, 16th, and 17th, the
so-called "Glede Hawks" remained preying upon Snow Buntings, and were
joined by a Sparrowhawk (or Merlin ?) on the 17th, wind fresh N. to
W., to strong N.W. At Sumburgh Head, Nov. 28th, a "Brown Hawk" was
noticed at noon, during S.W. wind, with haze and rain; and a "large
Grey Hawk," seen flying S., with fresh N. breeze, at 8.30 a.m.

_Notes._--It is recorded that a White-tailed Eagle struck on
Girdleness lighthouse a few years previous to 1853 ('The Naturalist,'
1853, p. 139). At North Unst the following species are noted as
resident:--Three species of Gulls, probably Kittiwake, Herring Gull,
and Great Black-backed Gull. Iceland Gulls appear from October
till March, but were scarcer this year than any which Mr. Burnett
remembers. The Black Crow (?), Hooded Crow, Snipe, Starling, Titlark,
and House Sparrow are included amongst residents. An occasional
White-tailed Eagle is seen, and several kinds of hawks. Of all the
sea-birds the Petrel is the only one that strikes on the lanterns. As
it is usually in the morning when the rock-birds are first seen on
arrival in spring, the time of their arrival is supposed to be during
the night, and the direction of their coming is unknown.--(Signed,
Robert Burnett.) Mr. Burnett adds, "The only rare bird I have
heard of in this neighbourhood was a Hoopoe." I paid a visit to
the Isle of May on June 24th, 1880, and made Mr. Agnew's personal
acquaintance. During a hurried visit of less than two hours my
companion and myself rowed round the cliff portion of the island, and
also landed and walked over a considerable part of the lower-lying
portion of at the N.W. end. We saw the following species engaged in
incubation:--Oystercatchers, Eider Ducks, Guillemots, Razorbills,
Kittiwakes, and Rock Pipits. We searched in vain for any species
of Tern; a single Redshank was seen. Mr. Agnew's son saw a Black
Guillemot a few days before, and Mr. J. H. Buchanan, who was out in
the S.S. 'Fiery Cross' the previous Thursday, "thought" he saw one
also. The Agnews cannot say if they breed there or not, but their
being seen there occasionally would make it worth while, if time
permitted, to search carefully the suitable clefts and caverns in the
lower rocks. It was reported to me that the sea-birds have increased
greatly on The May since the Sea-birds Bill came into force. The
eggs, however, are still taken wholesale by fishermen from the Fife
coast and elsewhere.

Owls.--The only record occurs at Auskerry, where one was seen after
midnight on Oct. 21st, and remained about for some time; exact
species not noted.

_Note._--Curiously enough, on the same date, numbers of Short-eared
Owls were to be seen in the flesh in the birdstuffers' shops in
Edinburgh. This shows the value of even single records at lighthouse
stations, as, were it not for the above Auskerry record, the other
fact would stand alone.

Swallows.--During the spring migration these were taken notice of
at Isle of May, Auskerry, and Sumburgh Head. The earliest record is
at Isle of May, on April 30th, when two were seen flying N.W. at 10
a.m., flying with a light S.E. breeze, and clear. Then at Sumburgh
Head, two on May 16th, one on 19th, and two on 29th, during the
daytime; winds variable, fine, clear to haze, or showery; threatening
but fine on 19th; and two were seen at Auskerry on May 31st at noon,
wind S.S.E., haze. Lastly, on June 2nd, at Auskerry, two were seen
flying S., against a S. gale, with haze; and this last is properly no
doubt assignable to the commencement of the autumn migration.

Wren.--Recorded at Pentland Skerries and Isle of May only. On October
29th at the former, when one was seen flying about the island; wind
N.E., with snow-showers; and on Oct. 13th, at the latter, with light
E. wind, and clear.

Goldcrest, _Regulus cristatus_.--The only spring record is on April
12th at Sumburgh Head, where "some" were seen resting on the dykes
between 4 p.m. and 8 p.m.; wind E., light, with fog. In the autumn
migrations, they are recorded from two stations, _viz._, Tarbat Ness
and Isle of May. They appeared on Isle of May on Oct. 8th, when a
number were seen, having arrived during the previous night; wind
strong S.E., showery. Mr. Agnew notes this as "an early appearance,"
and notes also "none seen here last year." On Oct. 15th more
Goldcrests appeared on the same island at 4 a.m., and one was wounded
at the glass; wind variable and light; clear. On Nov. 1st one bird
struck at midnight, in strong N. wind, with snow.

Robin, _Erithaca rubecula_.--Occurred at three stations--Tarbat Ness,
Bell Rock, and Isle of May. A rush appears to have taken place about
the time of the earliest date--on the 15th August--past the Bell
Rock. "Great numbers along with Wheatears, Redshanks, and many small
birds unidentified, struck the dome and lantern between 1 and 2 a.m.;
wind light N.E. and rain. None were found dead on the balcony, but
many struck; some lightly, and flew away again; others harder, and
were seen fluttering away into the darkness. No doubt many perished
in the sea." The next date is the 18th Sept., at Isle of May, when
one was seen. "None seen last year." On Oct. 13th, on Isle of May,
another large migration was noticed, many being seen upon the island,
having arrived during the night. On Nov. 2nd, at Tarbat Ness, one
struck at 8 p.m.; strong N.W. wind, with showers.

Wheatear, _Saxicola ænanthe_.--The northernmost locality given is
North Unst, where a few strike the lantern during the season,
but no dates are given. Thence southwards, they are noted at five
other stations, _viz._, Whalsey, Sumburgh Head, Auskerry, Pentland
Skerries, and the Bell Rock. The earliest date is August 4th, at
Pentland Skerries, where one struck at 11.30 p.m.; wind strong E.,
and haze. The reporter adds the note:--"Starlings and Wheatears
generally strike at night, when the wind shifts with rain. They
probably leave resting-places, and, when once on wing, are attracted
by the light." On Aug. 14th another single bird struck at 10.15 p.m.;
wind light S.E., and fog: three more on 15th, from 9 to 11 p.m.; wind
the same, with haze. At Sumburgh Head, on Aug. 11th, one young bird
struck; wind light N., and fog. At Whalsey, on 16th, about twelve old
and young were flying round the lantern at 1 a.m.; wind light W.,
and haze. At Bell Rock, Aug. 15th, great numbers along with Robins.
At Auskerry, Sept. 5th, three struck at 3 a.m.; wind strong S., with
haze and showers. The latest date recorded is Sept. 13th, at Pentland
Skerries, when two struck at 2 a.m.; wind fresh S.W., and rain.

Titmice.--At Isle of May, Aug. 10th and 11th, a migration was
noticed: 10th, the first pair came to the lights, and one was
wounded; 11th, great numbers were seen on the island; wind light E.,
haze.

Wagtail.--At Whalsey--the only station returning a record of this
species--large flocks rested, arriving on Aug. 21st; wind light S.E.,
with dense fog, which lasted till 28th, on which date they all again
departed.

Titlark, _Anthus pratensis_.--Noted as leaving Whalsey Skerries in
the first week of September; wind at the time S. to S.E., with from
haze to fog during the days. The note is added, "A few remain."
These are probably Rock Pipits. The only other station whence I
have records is the Isle of May. A very large migration of Titlarks
(called "Woodlarks" in schedule) came during the night of Dec.
21st-22nd; wind light E., and clear; and on the 22nd, "The island was
literally swarming with them; flocks of from twenty to one hundred or
more." Mr. Agnew "never saw so many here before."

Turdidæ.--Records came in from Sumburgh Head in the north, to Isle
of May in the south, and from Auskerry. One record at Sumburgh
applies to the spring migration, _viz._, on April 1st, when several
Blackbirds (_Turdus merula_) were seen at 10 a.m.; wind squally
S.S.E; changeable weather, with haze and rain. In the autumn
migration we have more returns, but none before Nov. 1st, when the
first Thrush was seen at 2 a.m.; wind strong W., with showers, at
Auskerry. At Isle of May, Nov. 1st, "Mountain Thrush" was seen at
2 p.m.; wind light S.W., and haze. Thereafter on Dec. 15th, at the
same place, a very large flock of "Mountain Thrushes" at 2 p.m.; wind
light S., and snow. Again, on 22nd, two birds of same species,[2] and
one on Jan. 1st; wind light E. to S.S.E., and haze. At Sumburgh Head,
Jan. 14th, 1881, one Blackbird at noon; calm and clear.

[Footnote 2: There can be little doubt, I think, that Fieldfares are
meant. Ring Ouzels are usually denominated "Mountain Blackbirds."
Indeed, amongst a collection of local names which I have gathered, I
find the name of "Mountain Thrush" applied to the Fieldfare.]

Corvidæ.--The spring migration is referred to under Sumburgh Head
on April 4th and 5th. On April 4th some Crows ["species not known"]
seen flying S.E.; wind S.S.E., fine. On the 5th a gale blew from
the South. The autumn migration has eight entries under three
stations, _viz._, Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries (five dates), and
Tarbat Ness. Only two species--Ravens and Hooded Crows--are noted.
At Pentland Skerries, two Ravens on Sept. 29th at 3.30 p.m.; wind
moderate S., clear; one on Oct. 9th, wind light E.; and two on Jan.
13th, 1881, at 11 a.m., wind fresh N.E., with showers alternating
with clear. At Sumburgh Head, Hooded Crows arrived on Dec. 5th, and
remained all winter; and five were seen on Dec. 1st, at 2.30 p.m.;
wind moderate W., and showers; and four on Dec. 29th, at 1.30 p.m.;
wind light E., and clear; and two on Jan. 13th, at 11 a.m.; wind
fresh N.E., clear, alternating with snow-showers. At Tarbat Ness
great numbers continued along shore in Jan., 1881, owing to severity
of the weather.

Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_.--At Pentland Skerries and Isle of May.
Earliest dates July 5th and 11th, at Isle of May. Latest date (but
only three records altogether) 12th Sept., at Pentland Skerries. Four
struck at 11 a.m.; wind fresh S., clear; Pentland Skerries, on 12th
Sept. Flock of young at 10 a.m.; wind W., clear; remained two days at
Isle of May on same date. Very large flock of young at 7 p.m.; wind
N.W., light and clear, at the same station.

Chaffinch, _Fringilla cœlebs_.--At Isle of May, Oct. 19th, a few
seen: this is rather later than usual.

_Note._--The only record on the west coast agrees with this, however,
at Bahama L. V. (_q. v._)

Linnet, _Fringilla cannabina ?_--The spring migration represented
only at Isle of May by one bird at 7 p.m.; wind light W., clear, on
May 18th; and by two birds at 10 a.m. same night; wind light W.,
clear. In autumn, at Sumburgh Head, from sixteen to twenty seen on
Dec. 2nd, at 10 a.m.; wind fresh N., haze and rain; and six on Jan.
3rd, 1881; wind strong S.W., haze. Previous to this latter date the
weather was severe until Jan. 2nd, 1881. Snow and frost all gone on
3rd. "Until of late, birds very scarce."

Yellowhammer.--At Isle of May, first seen (only record) on Oct. 7th;
wind N.E. gale, clear.

Snow Bunting, _Plectrophanes nivalis_.--Recorded from the following
stations:--Whalsey, Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, Isle of May,
Inch Keith. In all thirteen entries. Earliest date Sept. 13th, at
Whalsey, when large flocks arrived and stayed thereafter all winter;
wind on Sept. 13th N., with showers. Latest date noted Dec. 29th, at
Pentland Skerries, when large flock seen on island at 11.15 a.m.;
wind strong N.E., hail. Between these dates: Oct. 27th, at Isle of
May, a flock at 2 p.m.; wind E.N.E., and heavy hail-showers. 28th,
Pentland Skerries, a flock on the island at 1 p.m.; wind strong N.E.,
and hail. At Pentland Skerries, Nov. 6th, a few--five killed--from
7 to 11 p.m.; wind W., showers. At Isle of May, 13th, a flock at 2
p.m.; wind light W., clear. 29th, one bird killed at same station at
6 a.m.; wind light W., haze. At Sumburgh Head, Dec. 5th, ten seen at
1 p.m.; wind fresh S.W., haze and rain. At Inch Keith, Dec. 10th,
large flock at 9 a.m., remained twenty-four hours; 15th, very large
flock at 11 a.m.; wind light S., snow. At Pentland Skerries, Dec.
19th, flock at 2.15 p.m.; wind strong S.E., rain.

_Note._--Mr. Hardy notes the earliest appearance on 18th Oct. in
East Lothian--a single bird near Thornton Loch, on the public road,
a field's-breadth from the sea-side. Wind N. and tempestuous, with
heavy rain.

Sky Lark, _Alauda arvensis_.--Records from Sumburgh Head, Pentland
Skerries, and Isle of May. Earliest date Oct. 23rd, at Sumburgh Head;
one seen singing for a short time; wind N.W., fine, showers, and
sunshine. Then Dec. 17th, at Pentland Skerries, large flock all day
on the island; wind fresh N.E., clear. Dec. 23rd, Isle of May, all
left, not one to be seen. Latest record Jan. 13th, 1881, Sumburgh
Head; five seen hovering round at 1.30 p.m.; wind light E., cloudy.
14th, two at 11 a.m., rested; wind light N., clear; and on Nov. 2nd,
seven at 9 a.m., flying east or landwards; wind fresh S.E., hazy. On
Dec. 3rd, flocks at 11 a.m.; wind E., flying S.

Rock Pigeon, _Columba livia_.--At Pentland Skerries, a flock seen at
2 p.m.; wind light S.W., snow on the ground.

Golden Plover, _Charadrius pluvialis_.--Records reached me from
Auskerry, Pentland Skerries, Tarbat Ness, and Isle of May (ten
entries, of which seven were at Pentland Skerries). Earliest date
July 23rd, when six were seen flying about the island--Pentland
Skerries--at 9 a.m.; wind light E. At Pentland Skerries, Aug. 11th, a
flock flying S.E. at 10.30 a.m.; wind light W., clear. No more till
Nov. 15th, when a flock remained a week at Auskerry, arriving at 11
a.m., with light N.E. wind. At Tarbat Ness, Nov. 11th, hundreds all
day till 4 p.m.; wind N. to W. with snow. Nov. 21st, at 3.30 p.m.,
a flock on island at Pentland Skerries; wind fresh S.W., clear. At
Pentland Skerries, Dec. 16th, a flock flying N. at 10.30 a.m.; wind
fresh S.W., and snow. At Isle of May, Dec. 22nd, one bird. "They are
not seen here every year, and most in severe weather."

Oystercatcher, _Hæmatopus ostralegus_.--At Sumburgh Head, Aug. 28th,
all left after the fog of 21st--28th cleared away; as did other
species, including Wheatears, Wagtails, and Rock-birds. At Auskerry,
five arrived, with light S. wind and haze, and remained a week.

Heron, _Ardea cinerea_.--At Isle of May, July 22nd, a flock of six
flying S. at 2.30 p.m.; wind light E., clear. At Pentland Skerries,
Sept. 9th, seven at 5 a.m.; wind light W., clear. At Sumburgh Head,
Sept. 19th, three flying about at 10 a.m.; wind N.W., and haze. At
Auskerry, Oct. 8th, two arrived at 2 p.m.; wind light E., clear; and
remained; and at same station on 21st, twelve arrived at 11.30 a.m.;
wind light N., and remained.

Curlew, _Numenius arquata_.--One record (April 13th) belongs to the
spring migration. One was seen flying S.E. at 11 a.m.; wind S., and
haze. At Sumburgh Head, Aug. 12th, six seen flying W. and crying
loudly at 12.30 p.m.; wind S.W., and haze. 2nd, seven flying about,
and then taking off W. and crying loudly at 1 p.m.; wind light S.W.,
haze. At Auskerry, Oct. 9th, five at 1 p.m.; wind light E., clear;
and remained. At Isle of May, Curlews had been on the island for
weeks.

_Note._--Mr. Dunn, Dalkeith Gardens, "heard a Curlew when calling,
some 800 to 1000 feet up in the air." It was flying due W. on Dec.
26th. The sky was clear and the sun shining at the time--about 1 p.m.
Wind light from W. in morning; calm at the time. For the previous
six days the wind veered between S. by W. to N., the prevailing wind
being S.W. Weather "very cold that day, and for a few days before and
after." Being a station of the Scottish Meteorological Society, the
above statistics are exact.

Redshank and Sandpiper, _Totanus calidris_.--At Isle of May, Dec.
27th, three Sandpipers seen at 4 p.m.; wind N.E., haze; and on Jan.
3rd, at same place, a Redshank shot.

Snipe, _Scolopax gallinago_.--At Auskerry, Pentland Skerries, and
Isle of May. At Isle of May, Sept. 12th, one killed at lantern at 4
a.m.; wind N.E., fresh, and rain. At Pentland Skerries, Oct. 2nd,
two killed at 8.30 p.m., during strong N. wind, haze, and rain. At
Auskerry, Oct. 21st, two arrived at 3.45, and remained; wind strong
N. At Isle of May, Jan. 12th, a number arrived at night; wind fresh
N.E., and rain.

Woodcock, _Scolopax rusticola_.--At Isle of May, Oct. 9th, one seen
at 5 a.m.; wind strong N.E., and showers; this is earlier than usual.
At Isle of May, Oct. 19th, more arrived during the night or morning,
with N.E. gale, and showers. At Auskerry, Oct. 21st, one arrived at
3.30 p.m., and remained; wind strong N., with sleet. On Nov. 16th
considerable numbers came during the night. These are the latest Mr.
Agnew remembers to have seen, by several weeks. At Pentland Skerries,
Nov. 29th, one on the island at morn; wind strong W., and clear.

Goose, _Anser_.--On Oct 14th a flock of "Grey Geese" flying S.E., at
10.45 a.m., past the Pentland Skerries; wind fresh N.W., and showers.
Again on Oct. 24th another flock of the same flying also S.E. at 5.15
p.m.; wind also fresh N.W., clear. Again on 26th Oct. a flock of the
same flying N. at 6.30 a.m.; wind strong N., and showers; all the
above probably indicating only a local migration--to and fro. At Isle
of May, Oct. 26th, a large flock flying N., with westerly gale.

_Note._--Mr. Dunn, Dalkeith Gardens, "observed a >-shaped flock of
about forty Wild Geese, about six hundred feet from the surface of
the earth, flying in an easterly direction on the 16th December.
They made a considerable noise in their flight. The wind at the time
was N.W., and for the six previous days it ranged from W. to N., on
one day only chopping round to S., _viz._, on 15th, which was the
day before we saw the Geese. Snow was lying on the ground at the
time, and the next seven days were cold, dull, and stormy, with more
or less snow falling every day. Flights of Geese are not common in
this district, hence the interest taken in the above." Could we get
a number of similar records from inland observers, how useful they
would be for comparison with our coast stations.--[J. A. H. B.]

Swan, _Cygnus_.--At Sumburgh Head, Jan. 30th, 1881, twenty wild
Swans seen, first a mile off, flying along the shore very slowly,
and lowering, apparently much exhausted. At North Ronaldshay, Dec.
23rd, 1880, sixteen Swans seen; they stayed on a large loch about two
weeks, during a heavy fall of snow, and flew off north when the thaw
commenced.

Ducks.--Two records on April 1st at Whalsey and Sumburgh Head,
referable to the spring migration. At Whalsey, Eider Ducks (or
"Dunters") arrived about this date, and at Sumburgh Head, Sheldrakes
arrived on this date, at 10 a.m.; wind strong S.S.E., with showers.
In the autumn migration, notes have been taken at Whalsey, Sumburgh
Head, Pentland Skerries, and Isle of May (eight entries). Eiders
said to leave about August, and the note is added that, "after the
Ducks have sat eight or ten days, the Drakes all disappear from the
neighbourhood." On Sept. 12th, twelve male Eiders seen at 3 p.m.;
wind S., and fine, with haze. At Pentland Skerries, Sept. 14th, a
flock, mostly males, seen flying E.; wind light E., and rain. Sept.
25th, at same station, a flock of male and female Eiders flying E.;
wind light E., rain. At Isle of May, Oct. 19th, a "small duck." At
Isle of May, Dec. 22nd, "a flock of ducks" swam along shore. At
Tarbat Ness, Dec. 30th, flocks of from eight to ten "ducks" seen from
2 to 3.30 p.m.; wind light N., and snow. At Isle of May, Jan. 13th,
three "Wild Ducks" seen; wind E.N.E., gale, and snow.

Rock Birds.--Records at North Unst, Whalsey, and Sumburgh refer to
spring arrival. At North Unst, April 25th, innumerable Puffins and
rock-birds arrived; wind fresh N.W., and clear. At Whalsey, March
15th, the rock-birds arrived. At Sumburgh, March 4th, they arrived
about 7 a.m. In autumn, all left Whalsey on Aug. 28th after the fog,
which had hung since the 21st, cleared off. At Pentland Skerries,
July 25th, a flock of Guillemots seen flying E. at 7 p.m., with
moderate E. wind. On Aug. 4th, two flocks flying E. between 3 and 4
p.m., with light S. wind; and on Aug. 25th, three flocks seen flying
E. between 5 and 8 p.m., with light S.W. airs.

_Note._--Mr. M. Vaughan--to whom I am indebted for supplementary
notes--writes that Rock-birds, Gannets, and Cormorants were scarcer
than usual in Orkney during the first week in August. I have no
return this year from Dunnet Head, but Mr. Geo. Maclachlan, says,
"There are over 3000 Guillemots hatched here, and I am able to count
(say) 175 in 350." At the Isle of May, Eiders arrived about Oct. 1st,
coming, it is believed, to winter from the Isle of May and Fidra.
They remain till end of March.

Gulls.--At Sumburgh Head, Oct. 23rd, one Iceland Gull seen at 8 a.m.;
wind N.W., with showers. This is the first seen. They come in October
and leave in April. At same station, Nov. 22nd, another Iceland Gull
at 10 a.m.; wind fresh S.W., and clear. At Tarbat Ness, Dec. 24th,
two ("Iceland Gulls") at 11 a.m.; wind light N.E., and sleet.

_Note._--These "Iceland Gulls" maybe true _Larus islandicus_ or
Iceland Gull _vera_, but more probably are Glaucous Gulls (_Larus
glaucus_). The incident below related is confirmed by a letter
received from Mr. Jack, the head light-keeper at the Bell Rock
lighthouse:--"Arbroath: A Fact for Naturalists.--Our Arbroath
correspondent writes:--A curious story of a sea-bird is in
circulation here, and I send it you, as it has been related to me
on what seems fairly good authority. The other day a white Sea Gull
of the Kittiwake variety was seen flying about the signal-tower of
the Bell Rock lighthouse. The bird was evidently in distress, and
one of the lighthouse-keepers opening a window, held out his hands,
when it came to him. The bird, in taking a bait fixed to a line, had
swallowed the hook, and the line, with its handle, a stick about a
foot long, was dependent from the bird's mouth. The light-keeper cut
away the string as far down the bird's throat as he could reach, and
the bird flew away evidently relieved.--'Scotsman,' 1st May, 1880."
Mr. Jack writes as follows, 10th May, 1880:--"It is quite true about
the Sea Gull. It was so unusual to see a string attached to the bird,
that I opened the window of my bedroom and leaned out to look at
it, when, strange to say, it came towards me. Without thinking for
a moment that the creature would really come to me, I held out my
hands towards it, when it came close up to me. I took hold of it and
brought it inside, and called to my two assistants (who were looking
out of another window a few feet from mine) to 'look at this.' So
surprised were they both at the whole affair, that after we had
relieved the poor bird, one of my assistants declared that, when he
got on shore in turn, he would state the case to the editor of the
'Guide' newspaper." "Poor little creature!" adds my correspondent,
"it was a pleasant sight to see it on its flight away, and not as it
arrived, weary and worn out." One has only to imagine the Bell Rock
as the Ark in the midst of the waters, and the Gull a Dove. As I am
speaking now of the Bell Rock, I may note here that large numbers
of Long-tailed Ducks are reported by Mr. Jack as frequenting the
vicinity of the rock in winter, constantly uttering their peculiar
cry of "Co-co-candle-wick." Solan Geese are perpetually in sight
summer and winter, flying round the rock or fishing. Mr. Jack also
tells us that single birds of different species come crash against
the dome or windows with terrific force, and rebounding off are
seldom even seen, but leave often their blood and brains scattered
about.

Skua, _Lestris catarractes_.--Reported as seen at North Unst first on
April 18th. About the same number is counted, _viz._, six or eight
each year. In autumn, at Sumburgh Head, one "Bonzie" was seen flying
W. at noon; wind S.S.W., haze; and the note is added, "The first seen
(in autumn?) for eight years."

Terns, _Sterninæ_.--Two records referable to spring migration at
Whalsey and Sumburgh Head. Arriving at former about May 15th and
at the latter on May 16th, at 9.40, with variable winds, fine, and
clear. In autumn, records at Whalsey, Sumburgh Head, Auskerry, and
Bell Rock. They disappeared from Bell Rock on Aug. 23rd, "not,
however, from want of food, as plenty soil of herring are around the
rock." They had been about the rock for a fortnight, feeding. They
disappeared from Whalsey, Aug. 25th, after the fog of 21st--28th,
at the same time with Wheatears, Oystercatchers, Wagtails, and
rock-birds. At Bell Rock, Aug. 28th, about thirty old and young were
seen feeding; and on the 29th these all left. At Sumburgh Head, Sept.
8th, a number flying about and crying at 9 a.m.; wind W., light and
haze. At Auskerry, Oct. 1st, four flew round for a little about 1
a.m.; wind light E., rain.

_Note._--Mr. J. T. Garriock, to whom I am obliged for a supplementary
schedule from Lerwick, recorded in 'The Zoologist' for 1880 the
arrival of Terns, apparently from the north, on May 22nd, when a
pair was first noticed. In a subsequent letter to me, Mr. Garriock
confirms his observation on the direction of their flight.

Petrel, _Thalassidroma pelagica_.--Occasionally strikes the lantern
during the season at North Unst, but no dates given. At Whalsey, Aug.
16th, one caught at 1 a.m.; wind light N.W., haze. At Sumburgh Head,
Aug. 3rd, three struck at 11 p.m.; wind N.N.W., dull, and sultry; and
on the 6th, one struck at midnight; wind S., and haze. At Auskerry,
Aug. 16th, one killed at 11.20 p.m.; light S. breeze, fog, and haze.
One struck at Auskerry, Sept. 13th, at 3 a.m.; wind strong S., and
haze.

Gannet, _Sula bassana_.--At Sumburgh Head, July 20th (earliest date),
great numbers, adult and young, flying in all directions, feeding on
herrings. At Pentland Skerries, July 19th, 30-40, flying E., wind
N.E., 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 20th, 50, flying E., wind fresh N., 9 a.m.
to 5 p.m.; 21st, 60, flying E., wind light N.E., clear, 9 a.m. to 5
p.m.; 22nd, 25, flying E., wind light N.E. airs, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.;
23rd, 25-30, flying E., wind E., 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; 24th, 40, flying
E., wind S.E., 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., fog, haze; 26th, 60, flying E., wind
mod. E., 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., fog, haze; Aug. 4th, continuous flights,
wind light E., 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., fog, haze; 5th, continuous flights,
wind moderate W., 4.30 a.m. to 8.30 p.m.

_Note._--Solan Geese were observed daily in flocks going E., from
July 19th to middle of Sept.; and going W. on Aug. 19th, 20th, and
25th. About the middle of Sept. young appeared amongst them. This
note summarises to a great extent the above data. At Tarbat Ness,
Oct. 18th, 19th, and 20th, great numbers flying N., wind S., 8 a.m.
to 4 p.m. Since the return of the schedules Mr. Jack has written
to me that--"On the 5th February, 1881, the Bell Rock station was
visited by the largest flock of birds I have seen this winter,
_viz._. Larks, Rose Linnets, Starlings, and other species which I
did not see well enough to make out. Time when seen, 2 till 5 a.m.;
wind light S.W. on arrival, and on departure fresh N.E. Fog and rain.
Great numbers struck, but none found dead, though doubtless many fell
into the sea. I have observed during the last two winters that the
Golden-crested Wren and the Common Wren have not visited us as usual.
I have seen these small birds thick on the windows, night after
night, during the fall of the year." It is interesting to note here
that between the 2nd and 11th March, 1880, a similar great migration
took place past the Bell Rock, of which an account is given in my
last report for 1879 [_vide_ Zool., May, 1880].[3] At Bell Rock, 18th
Feb., a great number of Larks, 8 p.m., light E.S.E., haze. Great
numbers struck, none lying dead. Apparently this flock was entirely
composed of Larks greatly exhausted. A number seen asleep all night
on window-sashes; left at first streak of dawn. Feb. 19th, a small
number of birds (species not determined) flew about in the rays of
light all night; wind S.E., fresh, haze. 25th, great number of Larks
during the night; wind light W.; striking, but none found dead;
left, flying N.W. March 10th, one Black Crow seen asleep on balcony
rail; left flying N.E., at 7 a.m.; wind fresh W.S.W., haze. 17th,
one "Snowflake" flying from N.W. to S.E.; wind W.S.W., fresh, haze.
In a letter accompanying this later schedule, Mr. Jack writes (28th
March, 1881):--"I am sorry to say our close companions during winter,
Dunters and Sea Pheasants, are still with us in great numbers. This
we know by long observation to indicate that winter is not yet past
for a season, nor can we judge so until they have all been gone for
a week at least. In the fall of the year, when we see them return,
we well know that winter is at hand. When stationed in the Isles of
Shetland I have often remarked, when I heard much howling going on
amongst the seals, that no good weather could be looked for, and I
have never known this to fail."

[Footnote 3: Later in March this year, _viz._ the 19th, an indication
of a returning (?) migration of Shrikes is found in the occurrence
of one bird at Bath Hill Wood, West Grange, Perthshire, not very far
removed from the Alloa district. It was shot by Mr. J. Livingstone,
and is now in the collection of Mr. J. J. Dalgleish.]


General Remarks.

As already mentioned, we have received fewer returns this year
from the East Coast than in 1879, having returns only from eight
stations in 1880, against thirteen in 1879. This arises principally
from actual scarcity of birds at many stations, and at some,
from extra work devoted to duties of the reporters, owing to
fogs and stormy weather. This scarcity appears to have extended
all along our Scottish E. coast, and even showed itself for some
distance down the East English coast. That, at no time, can our
East of Scotland returns approach in magnitude those of the East
English coast, I fully believe, because, in the weather most
favourable for observation at the stations,--_viz._, foggy or thick
nights,--lanterns placed a few feet above the water, as they are in
lightships, must attract far more birds than higher lanterns at the
lighthouses. The peculiar situations also of many of our Scottish
stations--in the midst of towns (as at Cromarty and Kinnaird Head,
in Frazerburgh), in inland bays and arms of the sea (as at Chanonry,
and at many localities on our west coast)--must very materially alter
the conditions of observation. At our more northern stations the
lighthouses for the most part stand at great elevations, and it is
worthy of note that from such stations as the Bell Rock, Pentland
Skerries, and Whalsey Skerries, on the east coast, and Dhuheartach
and Skerryvore, on the west coast, &c., we have the best filled
schedules, showing that stations upon lower and isolated elevations
are the best points of observation.

At the conclusion of my report for 1879, under the West Coast
stations, I take notice of the N.W. to S.E. trend of the migration
across Tyree and Loch Assapol in the Ross of Mull, and of the
direction taken by birds across the narrow part of Scotland between
the Firths of Forth and Clyde (_vide_ 'The Zoologist,' May, 1880, pp.
202-204).

My present impression--from these and many similar observations in
Stirlingshire and the districts named--is, that a semi-circular
migration is probably carried on; birds which strike our coasts at
more northerly points, or start from localities further north in
Scotland itself, at certain points trend more southerly from their
original E. to W. direction; and again, at certain other points,
again trend more easterly from their previous N. to S. direction,
and pass finally, as far as our British Islands are concerned,
from N.W. to S.E. directions. This, of course, is more patent in
some seasons than in others, depending upon prevailing winds and
weather. Birds came to us all through the migratory season from E.
to W. across the North Sea, except in 1879 at the Galloper Bank L.V.
(Zool., May, 1880, p. 203). In 1879, I believe, as further indicated
at the end of my report on the West Coast, that the migration was
compressed by prevailing N.W. winds, and deflected further south, but
in 1880 was more expanded, or less compressed, by prevalence of N.E.
and E. winds, and that therefore the horizontal area of migration
covered a larger surface. In 1880 we thus find birds migrating
from directions south of East to directions north of West across
the English Channel, or crossing from France to England (_vide_
Cordeaux's Report _antea_). These points are put forward not as
intended to be conclusive, but simply for the purpose of directing
attention for further statistics. I will only further direct
attention here to my "Third Ornithological Report for Scotland,
1880-81," read to the Natural History Society of Glasgow, session
1880-81.

In our last Report, 1879 (Zool., May, 1880), under our lists of
lighthouses, we gave the descriptions of the lights, whether white
or red, fixed, flash, revolving, or intermittent, or with other
lights or action. What influence in attracting birds these various
descriptions of light have, it would not yet be easy to ascertain,
because--_given_ the different colours and descriptions--we have them
at different localities, which makes it almost impossible to compare
them. However, broadly speaking, we would imagine the _brightest_,
_whitest_, _fixed_ lights to have most influence in penetrating
fog or haze, and therefore of attracting birds. We considered it
advisable to give these descriptions in our first Report, because we
thought that in time such may prove of some value when our knowledge
of migration increases. In the Report for 1880 we have not repeated
these particulars, but, instead, we give, after the name of each
lighthouse station, the heights of the lanterns above the sea, not
because we can positively affirm that the height of any given light
influences the total of birds seen or killed at that light, but
because we believe that this particular may possibly elicit facts
in future. Some of our reporters state extreme height above the
sea as a cause of birds seldom or never striking the glass, or
never being seen hovering round the light. Certainly, returns show
a preponderance of deaths or other records, first, _at lightships_
(the average height of the lights of which above the sea is only
a few feet); secondly, at such stations--upon isolated rocks--as
the Bell Rock, Dhuheartach, or Skerryvore (the lanterns of which
are not more than sixty or seventy feet above the water); and a
great preponderance above such stations as Cape Wrath (which is 400
feet above the sea) or other similarly elevated lights. During the
daytime, whilst crossing towards the English coasts and past the
lightships, flocks are usually seen flying low; and across the Firth
of Forth and other narrow estuaries the same thing is observed.
At times birds are seen passing high in air "_almost_ beyond the
range of vision," and when clouds or fogs rapidly lift or clear off
during the time of migration, the said migration appears often to
"cease to mortal vision," indicating, some say, a reascent to higher
levels. Birds also are known to _descend_ upon Heligoland almost
perpendicularly from the sky, indicating, it is presumed, a course
of migration at a great height, and a descent therefrom upon fog- or
haze-covered land to rest or feed. To birds passing through the air
above, a _local fog_ beneath probably indicates _land in the midst
of water_, and, if this be so, hence a descent upon it. The various
numerical returns of those killed at lanterns are probably a good
deal dependent on the height at which birds fly in foggy weather.
We might call this the vertical area of birds' migration flight as
opposed to lateral area.

Now it seems that light-vessels always return the best-filled
schedules, and therefore a preponderance of birds are noticed all
along the East English Coast, where light-vessels are most abundant.
Whilst upon the East Scottish Coast the returns are infinitely
smaller where there are no light-vessels, but only lighthouses, whose
lanterns are at a greater height; and the question very naturally
arises, "If the Scottish coasts were lighted with light-vessels,
would not the number of records be very considerably augmented?"


=Mr. J. Hardy's Notes from Berwickshire and the Borders.=

Swallows.--Began to take up their residence on May 12th; left
September 26th. Much later elsewhere in central districts.

Martin.--Returned on May 15th to sea-side nesting-places on rocks and
cavern-mouths. On September 22nd the great body departed, and on 27th
had all left but one.

Sand Martin.--April 23rd, on sea-coast.

Starling.--Most of the young birds had left the upper part of
Berwickshire before October 31st.

Thrush.--March 21st, a few birds scattered here and there; very
scarce. Left mostly by September; only a few later.

Redshank.--Dispersed before March 18th, when only one was heard. A
pair returned March 20th. June 24th a pair had returned. On July 17th
six or seven frequented the coast. On August 31st a small compact
band noticed.

Eider Duck.--A flock of six appeared on the coast, March 18th and
22nd. There were eight on March 27th and four on March 30th.

Wild Duck (_Anas boschas_).--Continued on coast till March 22nd;
greatly diminished by March 27th. One reappeared at sea September
25th. On October 16th they amounted to thirty, and on November 15th
about one hundred were enumerated. In December they nearly all left
the coast. On December 29th only nine remained.

Great Crested Grebe.--A party of twelve noted for the last time March
22nd, 1880. They reappeared, to the number of fifteen, on December
20th, and continued all winter.

Raven.--January 24th, one seen; storm of snow.

Curlew.--March 27th and 30th, most had left the coast; only one bird
left on April 17th. One reappeared June 7th, and more on the 9th. A
great flock on September 20th; shifted their ground before December
16th; only one or two left at the close of the year.

Pied Wagtail.--February 7th, one first seen; the next arrived March
27th. Left September 24th.

Wheatear.--March 25th, appeared off coast, but were absent on March
27th. March 29th, a little band of seven or eight arrived, but
disappeared. April 17th, a few appeared inland. Noted again on the
coast July 15th; September 17th, last seen. Were seen at Berwick,
October 14th, but the conditions are very different from here.

Whinchat.--A family newly hatched on the coast a mile to the south of
this on August 9th; not seen again.

Stonechat.--Not in some of its old haunts this year. On coast on
Cockburn's-path, April 30th.

Redstart.--May 2nd. Scarce this year.

Sedge Warbler.--May 20th, arriving in a band of late migrants.

Willow Warbler.--April 18th, in garden. April 23rd and 24th, singing
sweetly; last seen September 4th.

Swift.--May 16th.

Greater Whitethroat.--May 13th, arrived; 16th, general. August 6th,
haunts the garden; a single bird left September 19th. Observed in
some localities till end of October, but not here.

Landrail and Cuckoo.--Not heard in the neighbourhood this season.

Blackcap Warbler.--May 22nd, in Peasedean; not heard on 16th.

Spotted Flycatcher.--May 25th, numerous arrival along with other
migrants, as was the case last year. Last seen September 5th.

Black-headed Gull.--June 11th, two returned to the sea-side; more
appeared July 15th, 16th and 17th. By the end of the year the numbers
were reduced to one or two.

Fieldfare.--October 31st and November 9th, arrived, but few in
number, and only one remained to face the storms of 1881; very
scarce. No Redwings seen here. A great scarcity or total absence is
recorded from a large number of Scottish localities for the past two
years.--_J. A. H. B._

Wood Pigeons.--A large migratory band proceeding high over head
flying from N. to S., on October 30th.

Snow Bunting.--A very large flock of Snowflakes arrived at
Penmanshiel on October 30th, but left after resting a few days. Again
numerous there, November 30th. A few remained at Old Cambus, January
7th, 1881. October 18th, one landed in East Lothian in a storm of
wind and rain from the North, near Thornton Loch.

Grey-backed Crow.--November 5th, arrived.

Woodcock.--Did not leave till second week in May. Returned to
Peasedean, November 2nd. One flushed at Blackburn, Chirnside, October
20th.

Lark.--December 16th, flock of about one hundred seen; most of them
remained and departed in March.

Grey Linnet.--December 29th, flocks that fully numbered one hundred
birds feeding on the sea-coast ploughed fields infested by wild
mustard. Had all left, except four or five, by January 9th, 1881,
when that number came to the stack- and poultry-yards.

Brambling.--Only two present in the great snow on January 15th and
19th--at corn laid out for poultry--along with Finches.

Wild Geese (_Greylag_ probably).--February 8th, first band returning
north. Continued in neighbourhood till April 24th. In autumn return
first seen October 11th and 30th. Did not rest.

Lapwing.--In inland fields, March 7th. July 15th, returned to
turnip-fields. Disappeared in January, 1881.

Grey Wagtail.--March 8th, a pair returned. On May 25th several new
arrivals along with a rush of migrants, consisting of Flycatchers,
Sedge Warblers, and Common Martins.

Waterhen.--March 9th returned to its breeding pools.

Heron.--April 17th, still three on the coast. On July 15th there were
seven or eight. On August 6th there were sixteen, and on August 31st
twelve.

Cormorant.--Began to disperse about March 9th, when there were six.
Only one on March 18th, and two on March 25th. March 27th and 30th,
only one. Were not again noted till August 9th and 12th, when only a
pair had returned. Scarcer this winter than usual.

Rare Birds recorded by others on my List.--Hoopoe in Northumberland.
One Greater Shrike in Berwickshire, others in Northumberland.
Bohemian Chatterer, Kelso; Turtle Dove, Rough-legged Buzzard (one).


=Notes from the Faroe Isles.=

The following notes from Herr H. C. Müller and Dr. Madsen, of
Thorshavn, Faroe, have been received too late for insertion in the
General Report, but not too late for addition as an Appendix. These
notes were all made after the 1st January, 1881. They came to hand on
May 1st, 1881:--

_Cygnus musicus._--Five Wild Swans were seen on Jan. 1st, 1881; three
killed at Suderö on 22nd; one seen near Thorshavn on 10th; probably
all belonging to the same flock. Wind S.W., force 3-4. Rain.

_Numenius arquata._--One killed at Hvidenov, near Thorshavn, on Jan.
30th. Wind S.S.E., force 4. Rain.

_Columba palumbus_, Linn.--One seen along with _Columba livia_ at
Thorshavn on Feb. 7th. wind E., force 5. Rain and hail.

_Larus tridactylus_.--Four seen at Thorshavn at 10 a.m. on Feb. 10th.
Wind E., force 3-4. Snow.

_Alauda arvensis._--One hundred in a flock seen at Thorshavn at 9
a.m. on March 8th, 1881. Wind S.W., fine. For the five days previous
storm from S.E.

_Vanellus cristatus._--Four seen same time as the above noted Larks,
in and after similar weather.




EAST COAST OF ENGLAND.


Printed forms of enquiry and letters of instruction were sent to
thirty-seven lighthouses and light-vessels on the east coast of
England, and, through the kind co-operation of Mr. Cecil Smith, to
two of the principal lighthouses in the Channel Islands: independent
reports have also been received from four stations on the east
coast; and my best thanks are due to T. H. Nelson and C. Donald
Thompson, Teesmouth; M. Bailey, Flamborough; Wm. Eagle Clarke and H.
Bendelack Hewetson [Leeds]; notes from Spurn Point. J. H. Gurney,
jun., Northrepps, and Major C. Russell, Essex, for supplying notices
of the movements of birds in their respective districts. These
reports have either been treated separately or incorporated with
the nearest lighthouse. I have also received many interesting notes
from Mr. Gätke, on the migration of birds over Heligoland from the
commencement of June to the end of December, which are especially
welcome as a most valuable addition to the report. Special thanks I
also must tender to those various observers in the lighthouses and
light-vessels scattered along the east coast. Altogether, out of
forty-four stations, returns have been sent in from thirty-eight;
two other stations report no birds seen during the autumn, from the
circumstances of their situations in the midst of houses; and only
from four have no returns been made. The observations are in many
respects an improvement on those of the preceding year, exhibiting in
a marked degree the intelligent interest taken by the observers in
their work--work which it must be remembered is entirely voluntary,
and often carried on under circumstances of considerable difficulty
and discomfort.

The east coast stations are as follows, those making returns being
marked with a *:--

  40.   *Longstone, on the most easterly of the Farne Islands; white
           light, revolving every 30 seconds.
  41.   *Farne Inner, two lights; white, revolving every 30 seconds.
  42.   *Coquet Island, coast of Northumberland; two white lights in
           same tower.
  43.   *Souter Point. Nil return--no birds seen.
  44_a_.*Teesmouth, No. 5 Buoy, Lightvessel; one white light, fixed.
  44_b_. *Teesmouth.
  45.   *Whitby, High Light; white, fixed.
  46.   *Flamborough Head; two white, one red flash, revolving every half
           minute.
  47.   *Spurn Point; red and white sectors.
  48_a_. *Spurn (Newsand), Lightvessel, 6 miles S.S.E. of Spurn Point;
           white, revolving every minute.
  48_b_. *Great Cotes.
  49.   *Outer Dowsing, Lightvessel, 53 miles E.S.E. Spurn; red light,
           revolving every 20 seconds.
  50.   *Inner Dowsing, Lightvessel, 17 miles E. Sutton, on Lincolnshire
           coast; green, 20 seconds.
  51.    *Dudgeon, Lightvessel, 35 miles E. Skegness, Lincolnshire coast;
            white, fixed.
  52.    *Lynn Well, Lightvessel, off Nook of Longsand, Lynndeeps; one
            white, revolving 20 seconds.
  53.    *Hunstanton, Lighthouse; white, fixed.
  54.    *Cromer, Lighthouse; white, revolving each minute.
  55_a_. *Northrepps.
  55_b_. *Leman and Ower, Lightvessel, 48 miles E.N.E. Cromer; two white,
            one fixed, one revolving.
  56.    *Hasborough, Lightvessel; two white, fixed horizontal, north end
            Hasborough Sound.
  57.    *Hasborough, Lighthouse; white, fixed.
  58.    *Newarp, Lightvessel, 12 miles N.E. Winterton; white, three quick
            flashes, 36 seconds in a minute dark.
  59.    *Winterton, Lighthouse; white, fixed.
  60.    *Cockle, Lightvessel, 3 miles E. Yarmouth; white, revolving each
            minute.
  61.    *Corton, Lightvessel, 4 miles E. Lowestoft; red, revolving 20
            seconds.
  62.    *Lowestoft, Lighthouse. Nil return--no birds seen.
  63.     Orfordness, Lighthouse; white, fixed.
  64.    *Shipwash, Lightvessel, 8 miles S.S.E. Orfordness; white, fixed.
  65.     Cork, Lightvessel, 5 miles off mouth of Harwich River.
  66.    *Languard Point, Lighthouse, entrance to Harwich River; returned
            by Major Russell.
  67.    *Galloper, Lightvessel, 40 miles S.E. Orfordness; two white,
            horizontal, fixed.
  68.    *Kentish Knock, Lightvessel, 33 miles N.E. North Foreland; white,
            revolving each minute.
  69.    *Swin Middle, Lightvessel, off Thames; white, revolving every
            minute.
  70.    *Tongue, Lightvessel, off Thames; two lights, fixed: higher
            white, lower red.
  71.     Nore, Lightvessel, entrance to Thames; white, revolving 30
            seconds.
  72.    *North Foreland, Lighthouse; white, fixed.
  73.    *Goodwin, Lightvessel, Goodwin Sands; white, revolving, three
            quick flashes in succession, 86 seconds dark.
  74.    *Gull, Lightvessel, Goodwin Sands; white, revolving 20 seconds.
  75.    *South-sand Head, Lightvessel, Goodwin Sands; white, fixed.
  76.    *East-side, Lightvessel, Goodwin Sands, 13 miles E. Deal; green,
            revolving 15 seconds.
  77.     South Foreland, Lighthouse; white, fixed.
  78.    *Heligoland.
  79.    *Casquets, Lighthouse, off Alderney; white, triple, flashing
            every 30 seconds.
  80.    *Hanois, Lighthouse, Hanoveaux Rocks, W. end Guernsey; one red,
            revolving 45 seconds.

As many of the reports range over a twelve-month, it is necessary to
divide the remarks on the separate species into spring and autumn
migrations. The numbers of species noticed are very greatly in excess
of 1879.


SPRING MIGRATION, 1880.

SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES.

Pied Flycatcher, _Muscicapa luctuosa_ (_atricapilla_, Linn.).--At
Heligoland, Mr. Gätke reports, May 4th, great many fine old males;
5th, the same; 15th, E., many females, few males; 19th, S.S.E., all
females.

Blackbird, _Turdus merula_.--At Cromer L.H., Feb. 12th, two killed
against lantern, with thirteen Larks at midnight o.m.

Redbreast, _Erithacus rubecula_.--At Whitby L.H., March 1st,
daylight, a flock of Robins.

Bluethroat, _Ruticilla suecica_.--At Heligoland, May 22nd, all
males--perhaps one in ten a female.

Redstart, _Ruticilla phœnicurus_.--At Heligoland, May 1st to 10th,
all males. Thenceforward females increasing. May 4th, E. by S. or E.
by N., millions all males; 19th, all females.

Wheatear, _Saxicola ænanthe_.--At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., April 23rd,
W.S.W., many, with Wagtails, passing to land. At Heligoland, March
31st, S.E., to April 3rd, S.E., male birds; and to May 1st, when
females began to arrive. May 13th, E., all females.

Greater Whitethroat, _Sylvia rufa_.--At Cromer L.H., May 18th, 10
p.m., four killed and stunned against lantern.

Wren, _Troglodytes parvulus_.--At Whitby L.H., March 22nd, E.,
several at daylight. At Cromer L.H., May 16th, 4 a.m., one killed
against lantern.

Pied Wagtail, _Motacilla lugubris_.--At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V. (see
Wheatear). At Whitby L.H., May 9th, daybreak, many.

Sky Lark, _Alauda arvensis_.--At Cromer, Feb. 12th (see Blackbird).
Feb. 16th to March 24th, several with Starlings killed and stunned
during night.

Short-toed Lark, _Calandrella brachydactyla_.--At Heligoland, May
18th, a fine male captured.

Tree Sparrow, _Passer montanus_.--At Outer Dowsing L.V., April 18th,
11 a.m., sixty to S.E.; two came on board. April 26th, 3 p.m.,
hundreds to W.N.W.; ten came on board. From the position of this
light-vessel it will be apparent that in the first instance the
Sparrows were making for the coast of Holland, and on 26th for the
English coast.

Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_.--At Cromer L.H., Feb. 16th to April
10th, several struck lantern and killed along with Larks.

Carrion Crow, _Corvus corone_.--At Cockle L.V., June 8th, six to S.E.

Cuckoo, _Cuculus canorus_.--At Farne Inner L.H., May 26th, W. strong,
one seen. At Hunstanton L.H., April 18th, heard close to lighthouse.

Swallow, _Hirundo rustica_.--At Farne Inner L.H., May 15th, two
passed. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., May 9th, 2 p.m., two from S.E. to
N.W.; May 22nd, great many S.E. to N.W., fresh breeze from W. At
Hunstanton L.H., April 17th, one to S.; 19th, five to S. At Leman
and Ower L.V., June 9th, five on board at sunset; 21st, one at 11
a.m. At Cockle L.V., June 23rd and 24th, 4.20 a.m., two each day to
W. At Corton L.V., May 22nd, one to W.N.W.; 20th, two to W.N.W. At
Kentish Knock L.V., May 26th, 10 a.m., two very high to N.W. At East
Goodwin L.V., May 4th, 10 a.m., four S. to N. The observations tend
to confirm what I have observed and remarked upon, that the Chimney
Swallow in spring migrates in pairs; even when in flocks the pairs
may be distinguished, as the males and females keep close company.

Swift, _Cypselus apus_.--At Whitby L.H., May 14th, several at noon to
N.W. At Spurn L.H., June 7th, 7 p.m., fifty perched on gallery, none
killed. At Hunstanton L.H., May 17th, one.

Wood Pigeon, _Columba palumbus_.--At Hasbro' L.V., May 28th and 30th,
one each day to E.

Dotterel, _Eudromias morinellus_.--At Spurn L.H., May 15th, four seen
near Kilnsea; 25th, small flock of eight.

Ringed Plover, _Ægialitis hiaticula_.--At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V.,
April 2nd, first arrival at their breeding quarters on neighbouring
sand, where about ten couples nest each year, leaving with the young
in the autumn.

Limicolæ.--From the 1st to the 18th of May, northerly and easterly
winds blew persistently day and night on to the Lincolnshire coast;
the consequence was that we had an almost entire dearth of all those
many flocks of shore birds--as Godwit, Grey Plover, Knot--which visit
the Humber mud-flats during the first fortnight in May, on their
passage to the north. On the opposite coast of Yorkshire, under
shelter of the sandy promontory of Spurn, they assembled in large
numbers, feeding daily on the great expanse of muds left uncovered at
ebb, and at flood crossing to the sands on the sea side of Spurn. A
correspondent writes that, on May 7th, "countless thousands of waders
lined the beach, like wreck, on the sea-side about a mile above
Spurn; there were more than had ever been seen at once before."

Anatidæ.--At Flamborough L.H., July 2nd, a flock of Grey Geese were
seen flying N. At Goodwin L.V., June 6th, 7.30 a.m., a flock flying
to the E. Mr. Gätke reports from Heligoland that, on May 19th, three
Snow Geese, _Anser niveus_, passed boat quite close, "whiter than
snow, bills and feet redder than oranges, but alas! no gun at hand."
King Eider, _Somateria spectabilis_, is reported from the Farne
Isles on May 29th, and during the summer (Zool., 1880, p. 514; 1881,
p. 62). On Feb. 27th, 1880, large flocks of Widgeon came into the
Tees, and thirteen were shot by one discharge of a single-barrelled
shoulder-gun. At the Outer Dowsing L.V., April 18th, Wild Ducks
were seen migrating to N.W.; and on April 30th, every hour during
day, to N.N.W. At the Goodwin L.V., May 19th, shoals of Ducks from
W. to E. From the Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., May 25th, 11.30 a.m., my
correspondent writes, "Saw two Sheldrakes leave their nest with ten
young ones at low water; had to travel half a mile before they
reached the water; the male kept about six yards behind the young,
the female leading; they were fifteen minutes in reaching the water;
appeared just hatched; cock bird often looked behind to see nobody
was coming." With reference to the spring migration of Wild Geese,
Major Russell sends me the following notes from a correspondent on
the Essex coast, whose house is situated on the south slope of a
steep high hill:--"The Grey Geese were seen on Saturday, Feb. 21st,
from 600 to 1000 flying in a triangular form, in a N.E. direction.
I have repeatedly seen them sometimes passing for whole days, and
have always noticed that we have never had any winter to speak of
afterwards. They generally fly about a mile high. We very seldom see
them going south. I suppose because the days are shorter, or possibly
some may go another way; but they generally go north about this time
of the year. I used to try to shoot them with a rifle to see what
sort of Geese they were."

Alcidæ.--At Longstone L.H., March 9th, Guillemots and Razorbills
assembled; 24th, Puffins. At Flamborough L.H., May 3rd, hundreds of
Puffins arriving throughout the day, and on the same day a great
number of Guillemots. From May 28th to June 2nd, great numbers of
Guillemots and Razorbills were seen all day in the neighbourhood of
the Spurn L.V., at sea six miles S.S.E. Spurn Point. The Guillemots,
Razorbills and Puffins are later in their arrival and departure at
the southern than their northern breeding-stations.

Pelecanidæ.--At Longstone L.H., March 9th, numbers of Gannets flying
N. At the Farne Inner L.H., April 16th, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.,
Gannets were seen flying N. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., March 15th,
twelve Cormorants came into Tees, about fifty in every year at this
time, leave again after breeding-season till next March.

Laridæ.--At Farne Islands, April 8th, Gulls commenced assembling at
their nesting-quarters. At Whitby L.H., Feb. 18th, Herring Gulls
first appeared on the cliffs near lighthouse. July 4th, first young
was seen on the wing. Sept. 2nd, all left, both young and old. At
Spurn L.V., May 28th to June 2nd, large numbers of Gulls were seen
all day in the neighbourhood, along with Guillemots and Razorbills;
these birds were probably not migrating, or even contemplating such
a movement, but wanderers from Flamborough, following the shoals
of small fry which approach the Humber about that period. At the
Longstone L.H., April 29th, W., weather fine, first Sandwich Tern
seen, and the last seen Sept. 8th. The Arctic Tern was first seen
May 10th; last, Sept. 14th. At the Farne Inner L.H., Sandwich Terns
were seen on May 12th, and the Arctic May 15th, both species leaving
together on Aug. 28th. The Siberian Herring Gull, _Larus affinis_,
was seen at Heligoland on June 5th, and the Caspian Tern, _Sterna
Caspia_, on the 22nd, the first Mr. Gätke has got there. July 23rd,
repeatedly seen.

GENERAL SUMMARY SPRING MIGRATION.

Compared with the autumn notes on migration, the spring reports are
very meagre, and few and far between. This is probably due to the
fact that in the spring birds migrate, with rare exceptions, at
night; and, as the weather is then finer, and the nights clearer and
shorter, they do not run their heads so much against the lanterns of
lighthouses and lightships. The spring migration is also carried on
much more leisurely, migrants proceeding by easy stages northward,
and we have none of those great rushes which are so characteristic
of the autumn migration, when, with sudden changes of weather, flock
after flock pour continually during the whole day and night on to our
east coast. In the spring also the males of the Insessores migrate
some time in advance of the females, as is very clearly shown in the
Heligoland notes, as well as by the well-known arrival of our summer
immigrants, as the Nightingale, Whitethroat, &c. The notes on spring
migration taken in 1879, as well as in 1880, seem to point to the
conclusion that, during the vernal migration, migrants strike the
lanterns of lighthouses from 11 p.m. to the dawn of day, the majority
after midnight; and not in the early hours of night, as is the case
in the autumn.


AUTUMN MIGRATION, 1880.

SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES.

White-tailed Eagle, _Haliæetus albicilla_.--At Heligoland, Sept.
10th, S.S.E., windy, eight or ten.

Peregrine Falcon, _Falco peregrinus_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 24th, "all
latter time and _F. æsalon_, scattered." As in every autumn a few on
passage have been recorded in the eastern counties; one, an immature
male, was shot near Spurn on Jan. 1st, 1881.

Hobby, _Falco subbuteo_.--At Heligoland, June 19th and 20th, S.E.,
some.

Kestrel, _Falco tinnunculus_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 25th, S., very
little wind, a great many, few old.

Sparrowhawk, _Accipiter nisus_.--At Heligoland, enormous numbers
crossed in the autumn, commencing Aug. 7th, eight or ten young birds;
from thence to Sept. 18th, almost daily in greater or less numbers,
all young birds. Sept. 29th, evening, the first old birds. Oct.
9th, young interspersed with old; 20th, many; 28th, still daily. An
enormous majority of these must pass down the European coast, as
the notices on our east coast are few and far between. At the Outer
Dowsing L.V., Oct. 8th, one at sunset flying round lantern. At Leman
and Ower L.V., Oct. 6th, 4.30 p.m., one to S.E. At Corton, L.V., Oct.
9th, one settled on ship. At Heligoland, Mr. Gätke says Sparrowhawks
often arrive towards evening.

Common Buzzard, _Buteo vulgaris_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 18th, many.

Honey Buzzard, _Pernis apivorus_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 10th, with
Sparrowhawks.

Rough-legged Buzzard, _Buteo lagopus_.--At Heligoland, June 19th and
20th, some. There was a considerable flight on to the east coast
in October, Mr. J. H. Gurney recording (Zool., 1880, p. 570) about
a dozen in Norfolk between Oct. 16th and the end of the month. Two
were shot Nov. 1st on the Lincolnshire coast near Mabblethorpe, and
one at Spurn later in the season. Several others have been recorded
from time to time in the 'Field' and local papers, as either seen
or obtained in various parts of England and Scotland. The following
notices from the lighthouses may or may not refer to this species.
At Whitby L.H., July 24th, 9 a.m., a large Hawk going S. At Hasbro'
L.H., Oct. 24th, 11 a.m., four very large birds with heavy flight to
S. At Kentish Knock, L.V., Oct. 13th, one very large Hawk soaring
overhead. At Corton L.V., Oct. 19th, a large brown Hawk about
ship--may perhaps have been a female Kestrel.

Hen Harrier, _Circus cyaneus_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 20th, some.

Long-eared Owl, _Asio otus_,--At Heligoland, Oct. 22nd, some.
At Spurn, Oct. 28th, one shot. At Hasbro' L.V., Sept. 30th, 10
a.m., o.m. from E. to S.W., horned owl--probably this species. The
Long-eared Owls arrive on our east coast, as a rule, later than _Asio
accipitrinus_, and in much less numbers.

Short-eared Owl, _Asio accipitrinus_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 25th,
S., very little wind, great many. Oct. 20th, again great many; 22nd,
thousands. On our east coast they arrived in very considerable
numbers in October. At Inner Farne L.H., Nov. 16th, 4 p.m., one.
At Coquet Island L.H., Oct. 7th to Nov. 16th, with northerly and
easterly winds, and from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m., eight. At Teesmouth 5
Buoy L.V., Oct. 4th to 27th, twelve, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., going E.
to W. At Teesmouth, Oct. 3rd to 24th, nine. At Spurn, Sept. 29th,
one shot; Oct. 19th and following week, many; 27th, several. On
Lincolnshire coast, Oct. 19th and following week, very great many. At
Inner Dowsing L.V., Nov. 4th, 7.30 a.m., one N.E. to S.W. At Dudgeon
L.V., Oct. 5th, noon, one to W.; 23rd, 10.20 a.m., one to S.W. At
Lynn Well L.V., Oct. 5th, 11 a.m., one; 4 p.m., one Grey Owl N.W. to
S. At Leman and Ower L.V., Oct. 1st, one caught at noon. Many also
arrived about Oct. 19th on the Norfolk coast. I have no notices of
Short-eared Owls south of Yarmouth. The "great rush" took place on
night of Oct. 18th or morning of 19th, the Woodcock arriving at the
same time with a north wind. Heavy snow from north on Oct. 20th. The
"great rush" over Heligoland was on Oct. 22nd.

Barn Owl, _Aluco flammeus_.--At Yarmouth, Oct. 19th, morning, one
seen coming in from the sea.

Tengmalm's Owl, _Nyctala Tengmalmi_.--On Oct. 22nd a very fine
example of this small Owl was shot at Saltfleet, on the Lincolnshire
coast; wind strong from the north on 21st. Another was shot in
Felyingdales, Yorkshire, near Robin Hood's Bay, late in December. At
Heligoland, Nov. 22nd and 23rd, Hawk Owl, _Surnia funerea_, was seen
flying about, but never within shot.

Great Grey Shrike, _Lanius excubitor_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 14th,
N.W., windy, four fine old birds, pure white underneath; 16th, some;
17th, some; major, one. Nov. 10th, one fine old male. There was
a very considerable immigration on to the east coast in October.
At Spurn, one was seen during the first week in October, and
subsequently in that month and early in November, many. The last
from that locality I have a note of was a female, shot at Patrington,
Holderness, on Jan. 20th, 1881. At Whiteley Sands, Northumberland,
one early in October. One shot near Hartlepool Nov. 17th. One at
Flamborough Head first week in October. Mr. J. H. Gurney has also
recorded three shot in Norfolk in October; and many others have
been mentioned in the 'Zoologist' and 'Field' as occurring in
various parts of the country. One also was shot at North Kelsey, in
Lincolnshire, at the end of February.

Spotted Flycatcher, _Muscicapa grisola_.--At Heligoland, June 3rd,
some; July 13th, some; Aug. 25th, many; Sept. 3rd, N.W., 11 a.m.,
some; 9th, great many; 16th, some; 26th, less, passage varying
over four months. At Farne Inner L.V., Sept. 15th, great many
Flycatchers.[4] At Swin Middle L.V., Aug. 28th, o.m., many with
Starlings round lantern.

[Footnote 4: The term "Flycatcher" seems to be used somewhat
indiscriminately for many of the small insect-catching birds. Some
of these in this case are probably--as they are associated with
Wheatears--Redstarts. At the Longstone L.H., also on the same date,
several Redstarts appeared, both species migrating together and at
the same time.]

Pied Flycatcher, _Muscicapa luctuosa_ (_atricapilla_, Linn.)--At
Heligoland, Aug. 11th, E., fine, great many young birds, first
arrivals, and so on to 24th, when they passed in "countless numbers";
27th, still passing, but in less numbers; Sept. 8th, many; 13th,
great many with others in potato-fields; 26th, less numerous; 27th,
few. From Aug. 11th to end of Sept., about forty-seven days; "great
rush" on Aug. 24th, none recorded from English coast.

Red-breasted Flycatcher, _Muscicapa parva_.--At Heligoland, Sept.
26th, one shot in Mr. Gätke's garden, and another obtained Oct. 21st.

Mistletoe Thrush, _Turdus viscivorus_.--At Casquets L.H., Alderney,
Oct. 2nd, 11 p.m. to 2 a.m., with Ring Ouzels and Larks going W., six
Mistletoe Thrushes striking.

Song Thrush, _Turdus musicus_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 16th, some
numbers with Ring Ouzels; 24th, many of both; 25th, both all day;
Oct. 6th, with Redwings, and on 16th with Redwings and Fieldfares;
20th, with Blackbirds and Redwings; 22nd, few; altogether, between
Sept. 16th and Oct. 22nd, large numbers crossed the island. On the
English side of the North Sea, Thrushes occurred at twelve stations
covering the entire length of coast. At Farne Inner L.H., Oct. 29th,
several. Nov. 20th, 22nd, 23rd, all day, with Blackbirds, Fieldfares,
and Redwings; 26th, with Blackbirds. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Oct.
22nd, several and a few Redwings going E. to W., great many stopped
on board and appeared very tired, early part of day foggy; 25th,
several S.E. to N.W. At Whitby L.H., Nov. 23rd, snow, large flocks
at intervals flying high. At Flamborough L.H., Oct. 21st, day and
night. At Spurn L.H., Oct. 5th and 7th, many. At Great Cotes, about
Oct. 19th, many. Dec. 9th, second arrival. At Cromer L.H., Aug. 3rd,
midnight, three killed. Sept. 25th, 1.30 a.m., two killed. Dec. 10th,
8 p.m., two killed. At Leman and Ower L.V., Sept. 28th and 29th,
during night. At Hasbro' L.H., Oct. 26th, 10 p.m., with a great many
small birds, some killed. At Corton L.V., Oct. 22nd, continuous after
daylight, E. to W., with Larks and Blackbirds, and again Nov. 7th. At
Galloper L.V., Nov. 1st, 9 a.m., forty S.E. to N.W.: 2nd, 10 p.m. to
sunrise, with Larks, Starlings, and Blackbirds, from E.S.E. to N.W.,
about 120 killed; 9th, about eighty to N.W. during night. At Kentish
Knock L.V., Oct. 10th, one. At Gull L.V., Oct. 25th, with Larks and
Linnets continuously all day. "Great rush," 19th to 26th Oct. There
was a "second rush" Dec. 9th and 10th, preceding the outbreak of
Arctic weather on Dec. 13th. Line of migration E. to W., S.E. to
N.W. Time over which migration extended (exclusive of occurrences in
December, as probably referring to local movements caused by severe
weather) from Aug. 3rd, Cromer, to Nov. 26th, Farne Islands, or 126
days.

Fieldfare, _Turdus pilaris_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 16th, N.W. and
easterly, in great numbers high overhead; 25th, some; 28th, numerous;
and after this Fieldfares, Thrushes, and Blackbirds occasionally
till first week in December. On the East Coast of England occur at
ten stations from Farne Islands to Yarmouth. At Inner Farne L.H.,
Oct. 25th, forenoon, flocks to W.; 27th, same; Nov. 16th, flock. At
Coquet Island L.H., Oct. 26th, 7 a.m., half-a-dozen. At Teesmouth 5
Buoy L.V., Oct. 25th, 9 a.m., three, S.E. to N.W. Nov. 5th, 10 a.m.,
great many to W.; 20th, 11 a.m., large flocks from E.; 27th, great
many E. to W. At Flamborough L.H., Oct. 21st, day and night, five
killed. At Spurn L.H., Oct. 26th, 27th, 28th, great many. At Great
Cotes, Dec. 9th, many, "second rush." At Corton L.V., Oct. 5th, one
over ship, E. to W. Jan. 15th, 12.45 p.m., high overhead, W.S.W. At
Galloper L.V., Nov. 1st, 9 a.m., fifteen, S.E. to N.W. At Yarmouth,
Oct. 17th and 18th, early morning, very high. Mr. T. Southwell, of
Norwich, saw a large flock near that city on Sept. 9th.[5] Excluding
Great Cotes as referring perhaps to local movement from outburst
of severe weather in the North, the Fieldfares were seen on their
migration, first near Norwich, Sept. 9th and last at Teesmouth, Nov.
27th--eighty days. "Great rush" Oct. 21st to 28th.

[Footnote 5: A flock of twenty-five were Seen at Woodham Mortimer,
Essex, on Sept. 6th. See 'Field,' Oct. 2nd.]

Redwing, _Tardus iliacus_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 6th, first flocks.
Oct. 16th, N.W. and easterly, in great numbers, very high; 20th,
many. English coast five stations from Farne Island to Yarmouth.
At Farne Inner L.H., Oct. 29th, many. At Spurn L.H., Oct. 5th,
plentiful. At Great Cotes, Dec. 9th, many, "second rush." At
Hunstanton L.H., Sept. 18th, 10 p.m., one caught. At Yarmouth,
Oct. 17th and 18th, with Fieldfares, very high. From Sept. 6th,
Heligoland, to Oct. 29th, Farne Islands, fifty-four days; "great
rush" middle of October.

Blackbird, _Turdus merula_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 19th, some; 20th,
many; 28th, numerous. At Farne Inner L.H., Oct. 21st and 29th, one
each day; Nov. 20th, 22nd, 23rd and 26th, many; "great rush" on
these four days. At Coquet L.H., Nov. 20th, all day. Dec. 19th,
many, with Larks and Plover. At Whitby L.H., Aug. 1st, at daylight,
the first seen this year. Oct. 24th and 26th, several at daylight.
At Flamborough L.H., Oct. 21st, day and night. At Spurn L.H., Oct.
27th, old cocks. Nov. 20th, Blackbirds in considerable numbers, with
Thrushes, Redwings, and Fieldfares. At Great Cotes, Sept. 27th, young
cocks. Oct. 19th, many. At Outer Dowsing L.V., Oct. 22nd, 3 p.m.,
four old males, E.S.E. to W. Nov. 26th, 1 p.m., three males, E.S.E.
to W. At Cromer L.H., Nov. 6th, three. At Hasbro' L.H., 11 p.m., two
struck, killed. At Corton L.V., Oct. 22nd, continuous after daylight,
E. to W. Nov. 7th, 11 a.m. to sunset, with Thrushes; 9th, W. by N.,
several flocks to S.W., very low. At Galloper L.V., Oct. 22nd, 8.40
a.m., about four hundred and three hundred Starlings to S.W.; 31st,
sixty; Nov. 2nd, about one hundred during night, thirty killed, to
N.W. at sunrise; 6th, 10 p.m. to sunrise, about fifty; 9th, 10 p.m.
to sunrise, sixty. At Casquets L.H., Alderney, Oct. 13th to 17th,
Blackbirds at midnight. Are noticed at thirteen stations from the
Farne Islands to Alderney. Great numbers appear to have crossed; at
Heligoland commenced passing later than any other of the _Merulidæ_.
There was a "great rush" on to the English coast, especially over the
Corton and Galloper light-vessels, from Oct. 19th to 22nd; a "second
rush" northwards of Spurn on Nov. 20th. Migrate both by day night;
direction of flight E. to W. or S.E. to N.W.

Ring Ouzel, _Turdus torquatus_.--At Heligoland began moving very
early in the season. Sept. 9th, some, with _T. musicus_; 24th, many;
25th, great many, whole day, passing on. Oct. 7th, many, young birds;
27th, some. None recorded at any station on the English coast, which
is rather remarkable.[6] At the Casquets L.H., Aug. 16th, midnight,
misty, "Ring-Thrushes," four striking. Sept. 6th, midnight, N.E.,
rain, four struck. Oct. 2nd, 11 p.m., rain, four struck, and again on
the 7th, 3 a.m., rain, four struck. Ring Ouzels were moving along the
French coast as early as Aug. 16th; over Heligoland Sept. 9th to Oct.
27th. A very fine example of _Tardus Naumanii_ (the first that has
occurred there), a young bird, was captured on Oct. 10th; N.E., windy.

[Footnote 6: Lord Lilford (Zool., 1881, p. 24) records the first Ring
Ouzel of the season in North Northamptonshire on Sept. 21st; and two
are also recorded in 'The Zoologist' (1881, p. 26), as seen near
Harwich, Oct. 10, 1880.]

Hedgesparrow, _Accentor modularis_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 26th,
pretty large numbers, first comers. Oct. 5th, great many in garden;
8th, great many; 9th, same. At Spurn L.H., Oct. 17th, very abundant.
At Great Cotes, Sept. 21st, in bean-fields near coast. Not observed
at any other stations.

Redbreast, _Erithacus rubecula_,--At Heligoland, from Sept. 9th to
Oct. 9th, great numbers passing over island. At Coquet L.H., Sept.
10th and 16th, 10 a.m., one each day. Oct. 23rd, 5 p.m., one caught
on glass. Dec. 28th, noon, one. At Whitby L.H., Sept. 27th, 10
a.m., a large flock of small birds containing many Robins remained
a few hours and then went S. At Hunstanton L.H., Sept. 5th, one. At
Northrepps, Norfolk, Oct. 14th and 15th, many noticed, evidently
immigrants. At Hanois L.H., Guernsey, Aug. 14th, midnight. Redbreasts
with many other birds, some killed.

Bluethroat, _Ruticilla suecica_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 9th, E., fine,
several; 17th, N.E., wind, much rain, many.

Redstart, _Ruticilla phœnicurus_.--At Heligoland, Aug. 12th and
13th, young birds. Sept. 3rd, 11 a.m., N.W., great many; 8th, many;
9th, great many; 16th, many, about half old birds; 17th, enormous
numbers, same; 25th and 26th, many. At Longstone L.H., Sept. 15th,
several on reef. At Farne Inner L.H., Sept. 15th, many "fly-catchers"
with Wheatears (see notes, Flycatcher, _M. grisola_). At Teesmouth,
many amongst the bents which grow upon the Tees breakwater early in
September (not previously noted in this locality). At Flamborough,
last week in August, great many. At Spurn, Sept. 3rd, many, left to
a bird night of 3rd. At Northrepps, Aug. 30th and 31st, "swarming."
At Yarmouth, large numbers first week in September. At Shipwash
L.V., Aug. 30th, 2 p.m. to 7 p.m., large numbers to W.N.W. The
immigration of this species is very interesting from the large and
unusual numbers which can be traced along the east coast from the
Farne Islands to the Shipwash L.V., off the mouth of the Thames. They
arrived along the entire length of the coast during the latter part
of August and early in September. At the Shipwash L.V., the most
southern station, they were going W.N.W., and at all other stations,
after touching land, evidently followed the coast-line to the south.
The migration was confined very closely to the coast, the birds going
but a short distance inland. In nearly every case they migrated in
company with or at the same time as the Wheatear.

Stonechat, _Saxicola rubicola_.--At Heligoland, Aug. 11th, young.
Sept. 3rd, 11 a.m., great many; 9th, same. Oct. 1st, 2nd and 3rd, old
birds.

Whinchat, _Saxicola rubetra_.--At Heligoland, Aug. 23rd, great many
young birds, the first of them; 24th, also great many. October, first
week, old birds. Mouth of Deben river, Suffolk coast, Nov. 1st.

Wheatear, _Saxicola œnanthe_.--At Heligoland, July 5th, small
flights, young birds; 24th, same. Sept. 16th, great many, about half
old birds. At Farne Inner L.H., Aug. 10th, several. Sept. 15th,
forty to fifty. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Aug. 30th, 10 a.m., fog,
two came on board. Sept. 10th, great many Wheatears from S.E., and
"several small birds of a dark green colour" (Redstarts?), some on
deck. At Teesmouth, Sept. 10th, an unusually large number along
the banks between Hartlepool and Sneaton Snook, also Redstarts. At
Flamborough, last week in August, in great numbers, with Redstarts.
At Spurn, Sept. 3rd, with some Redstarts. Oct. 27th, last seen, an
old bird. At Great Cotes, September, first fortnight, very great
many. At Northrepps, Aug. 30th and 31st, great numbers and Redstarts.
Altogether there was a very large immigration on the east coast from
the Farne Islands to Yarmouth the last week in August and early in
September.

_Saxicola deserti_, Rupp.,[7] a fine old male, in perfect summer
plumage, occurred at Heligoland on June 23rd, wind W., calm, warm.
_Saxicola leucura_, Aug. 11th, E., fine, one, undoubtedly, but not
shot.

[Footnote 7: It is worthy of note that on the same day a fine example
of _Papilio podalirius_, the scarce Swallow-tail, was taken on the
island. This butterfly was added to the British list on the authority
of Haworth, but no authenticated British specimen is known: its
occurrence on Heligoland adds to the probability of its capture in
England, [_Saxicola deserti_ also occurred at Alloa, in Scotland, on
Nov. 28th, 1880.--J.A.H.B.]]

Sylviidæ.--Of the small warblers, _Hypolais icterina_, a fine
male occurred in Heligoland on June 3rd; the same day some Willow
Wrens and one _Sylvia viridanus_, a fine female, shot in Mr.
Gätke's garden, making the third Heligoland example. On July 13th,
Whitethroats; 24th, young Willow Wrens. On Aug. 24th, great many,
also some Whitethroats and Garden Warblers; 27th, Willow Wrens in
less numbers, and again in increased numbers on Sept. 3rd; on the
9th Chiffchaffs commenced migrating, also a great many Willow Wrens
and Whitethroats came; on the 15th, forenoon, Willow Wrens and Sedge
Warblers, great many in potato-fields; again, on 16th, S.E., calm,
sunny, warm, Willow Wrens, Chiffchaffs and Garden Warblers, great
many, less numbers of Blackcaps; 17th, Willow Wrens, Chiffchaffs
and Garden Warblers, less of the latter; 25th, westerly. Willow
Wrens, and great numbers of Chiffchaffs, Garden Warblers, Blackcaps
and Whitethroats; the same day, _P. superciliosus_, one fine bird
shot; besides this a large _Phylloscopus_, with very conspicuous
wing-bar, was seen. Again, on the 26th, another _P. superciliosus_,
and in the evening many Chiffchaffs, Garden Warblers and Blackcaps;
27th, Chiffchaffs, Garden Warblers, Blackcaps and Whitethroats;
28th, some Chiffchaffs; 30th, Chiffchaffs, Garden Warblers, one
_P. superciliosus_ seen, a grey _Phylloscopus_ seen, _tristis ?_
Some more Chiffchaffs, with many other birds, Oct. 8th, and one _P.
superciliosus_; Chiffchaffs again on 9th, 10th and 11th; 13th, Willow
Wrens, great numbers all this latter time also. After the middle of
October the migration of the _Sylviidæ_ appears to have ceased. At
Flamborough a Willow Wren was caught on the morning after the great
storm on the night of Oct. 28th, and at Spurn on morning of 28th a
female Blackcap was shot by Mr. W. Eagle Clarke.

Golden-crested Wren, _Regulus cristatus_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 9th,
great many, first comers; 25th, some; 27th, 29th and 30th, some.
Oct. 4th, great many; 5th, also many with some _R. ignicapillus_,
Fire-crested Wrens, first comers; 8th, great many Golden; 11, also
great many; 22nd, daily some. At Longstone L.H., Oct. 22nd, one. At
Farne Inner L.H., Sept. 15th, 9 a.m., E.N.E., six. Oct. 12th and
13th, several all day. At Coquet Island L.H., Oct. 14th, N.W., one.
Nov. 9th, 11 p.m., N.W., gale, one caught on glass. At Flamborough
L.H., Oct. 8th, hundreds seen. At Spurn L.H., Sept. 15th, E.N.E.,
first seen. Oct. 5th and 7th, plentiful; 15th, about a dozen, one
caught; 17th, several; 26th, one seen. At Hasbro' L.V., Oct. 17th, 3
p.m., E.S.E. to W.N.W., two. At Cockle L.V., Aug. 18th, one caught on
deck. Oct. 9th and 18th, one each day also. On Suffolk coast, mouth
of Deben, Nov. 1st, Goldcrests. At Kentish Knock L.V., Oct. 1st, one;
10th, two on board. At Shipwash L.V., Sept. 1st, 6 to 8 p.m., large
numbers to N.W. Dec. 8th, 10 a.m., flock to W.S.W. At Hanois L.H.,
Aug. 14th, o.m., N., Goldcrests, some killed. First observed at the
Guernsey lighthouse, Aug. 14th; last at Coquet Island, Nov. 9th.
Migration extending over eighty-eight days.

Wren, _Troglodytes parvulus_.--At Farne Inner L.H., Nov. 23rd,
several. At Whitby L.H., Sept. 27th, 10 a.m., Wrens with many other
small birds, remaining a few hours and then going south. At Spurn
L.H., Sept. 21st, one caught on lantern. At Great Cotes, early in
October, many. At East Goodwin L.V., 10 a.m., four from N.W. came on
board.

Paridæ.--Oct. 14th, N.W., windy. Great Titmouse (_Parus major_),
some; Blue Titmouse (_P. cæruleus_), a great many passed over in the
afternoon of Oct. 10th, N.E., windy; and again a great many on the
11th, under the same conditions. At Great Cotes, Oct. 14th, Great
Tit, many; Blue, some; and Coal Titmouse (_Parus ater_), a few.
Dec. 9th, _P. major_, several, "second rush." Migratory flocks of
the Long-tailed Titmouse (_Acredula rosea_) occurred near Cromer in
October.

Motacillidæ.--At Heligoland, Aug. 27th, Blue-headed and White
Wagtails (_Motacilla flava_ and _alba_), great many young birds.
Sept. 1st, _M. flava_, pretty large numbers with other birds, all
restless, passing over; 9th, E., fine. Yellow Wagtail, _Budytes_
(_M. Raii_), great many; 15th, forenoon, _M. flava_, astounding
numbers, late in afternoon in great flights overhead, going north to
south; 27th, _M. alba_, some. The only migration of Wagtails over
Heligoland in August and September, with one exception, appears to
have been confined to these two well-known European species--the
Blue-headed and White Wagtails of the Continent. The Grey Wagtail
(_M. sulphurea_) was first observed at Great Cotes first week in
October, and on Norfolk Coast, Sept. 25th.

Tree Pipit, _Anthus trivialis_.--At Heligoland, Aug. 22nd, young
birds; 23rd, same; 24th, same, but less numbers; 26th, Meadow
Pipit (_A. pratensis_), great many (oftentimes with smart breeze),
also many Tree Pipits; 31st, Richard's Pipit (_A. Richardi_), one.
Sept. 1st, Tree Pipits, pretty large numbers; 9th, E., fine. Tree
and Meadow Pipits, great many, and two _A. Richardi_ seen; 15th,
forenoon, Richard's Pipit, some, once seven together, none shot; late
in afternoon. Meadow Pipits, great flights. Tree Pipits less; 16th,
Tawny Pipit (_A. campestris_), two; 27th, Meadow Pipits, a few. Oct.
6th, Meadow Pipits with Larks in great flights passing overhead. At
Coquet L.H., October, 9 a.m., half a score Titlarks. At Spurn, Sept.
6th, migrating with Swallows, but in separate flocks, bents full of
Titlarks arriving from sea, came from N.E., wind W. At Leman and Ower
L.V., Sept. 13th, Titlarks, numbers on board, fifteen caught. At Swin
Middle L.V., Aug. 29th, 6 p.m., two Titlarks and six species of small
birds on board, left for W. At Casquets L.H., Aug. 18th, 2 a.m.,
about fifty struck. Sept. 6th, midnight to 3 a.m., twenty struck.
Rock Pipit (_A. obscurus_), Sept. 28th, first seen on Lincolnshire
coast; Sept. 22nd, on Norfolk coast.

Shore Lark, _Otocorys alpestris_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 4th, about
twenty; 5th and 6th, some; 17th, twenty to forty; 19th, great many;
20th, flights from twenty to one hundred; 21st, great many; 23rd,
still larger flights; 26th, a few. Also great numbers in November and
up to Dec. 18th; on Nov. 15th, thousands, in flights of hundreds.
On the English coast the occurrences of the Shore Lark have been
numerous. At Farne Islands, one shot in the autumn. At Scarborough,
Mr. Roberts states that since the severe weather in January, 1881,
Shore Larks in small flocks have visited the coast, and several have
been shot and taken to him. At Spurn, Dec. 12th, flock of thirteen
seen. My informant, who is well acquainted with the bird, says,
"resting apparently as I was within six yards of them." At Skegness,
Lincolnshire coast, last week in October, eight shot. Near Bedford,
Oct. 28th, several seen, two shot ('Field,' Nov. 6, 1880). On Norfolk
coast a flock at Blakeney, which remained near the place for two
months, and others near Yarmouth. At Dover two procured in December.

Sky Lark, _Alauda arvensis_.--The entrances of the migration of the
Sky Lark at the East Coast stations are far too numerous to note
separately. In many cases they occupy a large portion of the returned
schedules, and individually far outnumber any other species. At
Heligoland the migration commenced Sept. 25th, already great many
overhead; 27th, 9 to 10 p.m., passing. Oct. 5th, morning, great many;
6th, afternoon, great flights overhead; 19th, late in forenoon, great
flights passing on; 20th, with Starlings, hundreds of thousands
passing overhead and over the sea; 21st, same; 27th considerable
passage in the night; 28th, many thousands over the sea; and after
this in flights through November and December. On our East Coast they
are noticed at thirty-one of the stations making returns, from the
Farne Islands to the Casquets, Alderney. At Farne Island L.H., Sept.
30th to Oct. 31st. At Coquet L.H., Dec. 19th. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy
L.V., Sept. 25th to Nov. 21st. On Oct. 24th, all day, "great rush."
Nov. 21st, "second rush." At Teesmouth, Oct. 6th to 30th. At Whitby
L.H., Oct. 14th to Nov. 23rd. At Flamborough in October. At Spurn
L.H., Sept. 15th to Jan. 13th. At Spurn L.V., Oct. 6th to 27th--from
9th to 15th every day continuous. At Great Cotes, September, last
week, every day and on to Nov. 4th. At Outer Dowsing L.V., Oct. 13th
to Dec. 6th; "great rush," Oct. 13th to end of month; "second rush,"
Nov. 12th. At Inner Dowsing L.V., Oct. 27th to Jan. 4th. At Dudgeon
L.V., Oct. 4th to Dec. 15th; "great rush," Oct. 17th and 20th, and
night of 27th. At Lynn Well L.V., Oct. 5th to 23rd, on seven days
great numbers; 11th, 12th and 13th, continuous during day ("great
rush"); after this, from Oct. 23rd to Jan. 3rd, in less numbers. On
Jan. 1st, 2nd and 3rd, with Knot; sixteen Larks and fifteen Knots
killed against lantern. At Hunstanton L.H., Oct. 8th, great many. At
Cromer L.H., Sept. 20th to Jan. 2nd, eleven struck and killed. At
Leman and Ower L.V., Sept. 28th to Oct. 27th, on eleven days, day and
night; Oct. 23rd, 26th and 27th, "great rush." At Hasbro' L.V., Sept.
1st to Oct. 22nd. At Hasbro' L.H., Sept. 13th to Dec. 27th, thirty
killed. At Newarp L.V., Sept. 24th to Oct. 17th. At Cockle L.V.,
Sept. 27th to Oct. 22nd; Oct. 11th and 22nd, continuous. At Corton
L.V., Oct. 7th to Nov. 7th; Oct. 22nd, continuous. At Galloper L.V.,
Oct. 9th to Nov. 11th, on seventeen days in large flocks, up to five
hundred in a flock; Oct. 31st, 11 p.m., half a gale, thirty killed;
Nov. 2nd, 10 p.m. to sunrise, about same number, and many on night
of 6th, with other birds. At Kentish Knock L.V., only on Oct. 17th.
At Shipwash L.V., Sept. 18th, Oct. 4th and 8th, Nov. 22nd; all day,
continuous on Oct. 4th. At Swin Middle L.V., Oct. 21st to Jan. 12th.
At Tongue L.V., Sept. 27th to Oct. 30th; "rush," Oct. 22nd. On Sept.
27th, hazy, fifty in ship round lantern at 11 p.m.; when stars came
out they left. At Goodwin L.V., Sept. 27th to Nov. 7th. At Gull L.V.,
Oct. 18th to Nov. 2nd. At South-sand Head L.V., Aug. 27th to Nov.
9th. At East Goodwin L.V., Oct. 8th to Jan. 12th. Enormous numbers
crossed at these four Goodwin Stations. At Casquets L.H., Oct. 2nd,
11 p.m. to 2 a.m., sixty killed.

The migration of the Lark was carried on all hours of day and night
in all weathers from Aug. 27th to Jan. 12th. The "great rush" took
place during the last fortnight in October, more crossing probably
on the 22nd than any other day, and at Heligoland on 20th and 21st.
A "second rush" a month later, on or about Nov. 21st, and a "third
rush" on the outbreak of severe weather in the second week in January
this year. General line of direction E. to W., sometimes N.E. to
S.W., but generally, like the majority of immigrants this season,
with a strong trend from points south of east. It is remarkable,
as shown by the returns, how frequently Larks are associated in
migration with Starlings, either in separate flocks or together; in
fact, the two species seem to be inseparable. In a large majority of
instances these two meadow-feeders are associated as if impelled to
migrate by a common cause.

Wood Lark, _Alauda arborea_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 28th, four.

Snow Bunting, _Plectrophanes nivalis_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 17th,
a few first arrivals; Oct. 20th, great many; 20th and 26th, a few;
Nov. 20th, still great numbers, but very few old birds. At Farne
Inner L.H., Oct. 28th to Dec. 20th; "rush," Nov. 16th, and again
Dec. 20th. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., from Nov. 7th to the end of
month, nearly on every day, immense numbers passed; all came from
N., and were going S.W. At Flamborough, Oct. 8th, first seen; Jan.
13th, great many flocks. At Spurn L.H., third week in October, a few;
29th, many, after great gale from E. and N.E. At Great Cotes, early
in November,--1st to 5th,--many; 24th, enormous flocks. At Yarmouth,
middle of October. At Harwich, Oct. 30th, many in Orwell river; Nov.
4th, first flock seen near Dovercourt (Zool., 1881, p. 26). None
are recorded from stations south of Harwich. The flocks consisted
mainly of the young of the year and old females; very few old male
birds. The immigration of Snow Buntings on to the north-easterly
coasts in four distinct rushes, _viz._, at the end of October, in
November, December, and January, has been attended with corresponding
depressions of the barometer and outbursts of Arctic weather, _viz._,
the great gale E. to N.E., Oct. 28th, with heavy snow in Scotland;
Nov. 18th to 20th, sharp frosts and heavy snow-storms; Dec. 14th and
15th, the same; and Jan. 11th and 12th, same. Mr. Gätke has observed
for some years a very marked decrease in the number of Snow Buntings
crossing Heligoland. There has been a very great increase in the
number arriving on our east coast for the last six or seven winters,
and it is probable that, like the Shore Lark and other Arctic birds,
the line of migration now runs further to the west than formerly.

Other _Emberizinæ_ occurred as follows:--At Heligoland, Oct. 11th,
Ortolan Bunting, _Emberiza hortulana_, many young; 24th, same; Sept.
1st, pretty large numbers; 8th and 9th, many; 15th, great many in
potato-lands; 29th, Reed Bunting, _E. schœniclus_, many; Oct. 4th,
great many; 6th, same; 8th, great many; 11th, same. Yellow Bunting,
_E. citrinella_, 28th, many; and same and Corn Buntings up to Nov.
20th, few old birds. Little Bunting, _E. pusilla_, Sept. 26th, one;
30th, one; Oct. 11th, one. On the east coast of England, at Great
Cotes, Sept. 30th, _E. schœniclus_, many. At Spurn, Oct. 26th, a few
seen. At South-sand Head L.V., Aug. 29th, four to south.

Chaffinch, _Fringilla cœlebs_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 17th, great
many beginning to pass; 25th, enormous numbers passing on high
overhead in a westerly direction; 26th, hundreds of thousands high
overhead; 27th, some; 28th, thousands so high overhead that they
cannot be seen, only their call-notes heard, all day long; Oct. 6th,
7th, and 8th, great many; 11th, same; 27th, still many passing. Great
numbers have also arrived on the east coast; they are noticed at
fourteen stations, from the Farne Islands to the Goodwins. At Farne
Inner L.H., Sept. 1st, 2 a.m., one killed against glass, S.W., misty.
At Whitby L.H., Sept. 27th, "Finches," "great rush," with many other
species. At Great Cotes, Oct. 13th, very large flocks of females
and young of the year about this date. At Dudgeon L.V., Oct. 16th,
one male caught on deck; 28th, same; Dec. 5th, one same, going W.
At Lynn Well L.V., Oct. 5th and 23rd, many S.E. to N.W.; 25th, in
smaller flocks to N.W. At Northrepps, Oct. 13th, Mr. J. H. Gurney saw
a huge flock in a stubble-field on the cliff, which he thinks must
have come in from the sea. At Leman and Ower L.V., Oct. 19th, 8 to
12 p.m., o.m., six caught on deck. At Newarp L.V., 2 to 3 p.m., Oct.
6th, 14th, and 18th, each day to S.W. At Cockle L.V., Oct. 6th, two
on board caught. At Corton L.V., 7 p.m., several males alighted on
deck; 15th, 6 p.m., one male caught. At Galloper L.V., Oct. 9th to
Nov. 6th, on several days, sometimes with Larks, twelve Larks, nine
Chaffinches killed night of Oct. 9th, o.m., heavy rain. At Kentish
Knock L.V., Oct. 7th, two at sunrise to S.W.; 15th, two, male and
female, caught; 17th, W.S.W., three or four hundred very high to S.W.
At Swin Middle L.V. Sept. 18th, sunrise to 10 a.m., Chaffinches with
Linnets to W. At Gull L.V., Sept. 28th, 9 to 11 a.m., continuous
flocks of Linnets, Starlings, Chaffinches, and Mountain Sparrows
to W., many of each on deck. The main immigration of the Chaffinch
was from the middle of September to end of October, the bulk of the
immigrants crossing south of Yarmouth. The "great rush" on or about
Oct. 13th.

Brambling, _Fringilla montifringilla_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 25th,
many; 27th, some; Oct. 8th, great many; and on 27th, still more, and
also good many throughout November. On the English coast few have
been observed. At Flamborough, Jan. 13th, some large flocks. At Leman
and Ower L.V., Oct. 6th, one male caught.

Tree Sparrow, _Passer montanus_.--None are recorded as passing
Heligoland. On our east coast they were observed at eleven stations,
but none are recorded north of Spurn. In North-east Lincolnshire,
Oct. 13th, very large flocks were seen about this date. At Dudgeon
L.V., Oct. 5th, "Sparrows" to W. At Newarp L.V., Oct. 25th, six
going W. by N. At Corton L.V., Oct. 7th, several alighted on ship
for a short time, going E. to W. At Kentish Knock L.V., Oct. 9th,
seven on board till squall had passed. At Shipwash L.V., Nov. 28th,
flocks to N.N.W. At Tongue L.V., Sept. 28th, 11 a.m., o.m., about one
hundred Sparrows on masthead; Oct. 24th, twenty to W. at noon. At
North Foreland L.H., from October to third week in December, hundreds
"mixed" were seen. At Goodwin L.V., Sept. 28th to Nov. 5th, on five
days, often with Larks to W. At Gull L.V., Sept. 28th, continuous
with other birds from 9 to 11 a.m. to W.; Oct. 16th, from 9 a.m. to
3 p.m., continuous to W. At East Goodwin L.V., Sept. 25th, Oct. 9th,
and 11th, flocks flying about ship; 17th, flock from N.W. to S.E.;
Jan. 8th, about one hundred from W. to E. towards French coast. From
Sept. 25th to Nov. 28th, the majority passing across at the most
southern stations the four lightships on the Goodwin Sands. It is
possible that some of the entries of "Sparrows," where not distinctly
specified, may refer to the Common Sparrow, which is now recognised
as a regular immigrant.

House Sparrow, _Passer domesticus_.--At Heligoland, Mr. Gätke says,
"Up towards the end of July all young Sparrows disappeared from the
island," and "up to middle of September nearly all old Sparrows had
also quitted the island." Oct. 10th, "Sparrows latterly influx," from
which it appears that the local Sparrows leave, the young first,
then the old, and their place is taken by a fresh arrival. At Spurn,
last week in Nov., Mr. Hewetson saw an immense flock--hundreds upon
hundreds--on the shore, evidently quite fresh arrivals; amongst them
was a Reed Bunting. At Outer Dowsing L.V., Sept. 26th, 5 p.m., twenty
House Sparrows came on board, travelling from S.E. to N.W.; and on
Oct. 2nd, at 4 p.m., eight going E.S.E. to W. At Kentish Knock L.V.,
Oct. 10th, one Common Sparrow; and on 12th, two, till squall had
passed, then to S.W. At Casquets L.H., Alderney, Oct. 13th to 17th,
at midnight, Common Sparrows with Thrushes, Blackbirds, Starlings,
and Wood Pigeons, to English coast.

Greenfinch, _Coccothraustes chloris_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 27th,
many; Nov. 20th, great many. At Corton L.V., Oct. 31st, one, a male,
caught.

Goldfinch, _Carduelis elegans_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 27th, some; also
through November and December; on Dec. 17th, great many. At Great
Cotes, some small flocks in North-east Lincolnshire in October and
November, more than have been seen for many years. On Suffolk coast,
mouth of Deben, Nov. 1st, seven.

Siskin, _Carduelis spinus_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 16th, a.m.,
"flights in my garden of (say) fifty; p.m., flights of hundreds";
17th, "hundreds of thousands"--"flights like clouds"; 25th, many;
Oct. 7th, great many; 27th, many still passing; Nov. 4th, W., still
some flights. On English coast of Spurn, Oct. 27th, small flock seen.
At Northrepps, Sept. 16th, seen by Mr. J. H. Gurney. Have also been
reported as more plentiful than usual in other parts of country.

Lesser Redpole, _Linota rufescens_.--In Lincolnshire there were very
considerable numbers in our east coast marshes early in October;
in one instance, on the 7th, I saw a flock of two hundred in a
stubble-field near the coast. At Spurn, Oct. 28th, Mr. Wm. Eagle
Clarke saw a flock near Kilnsea.

Linnet, _Linota cannabina_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 4th, great many,
first comers; 6th, some; 28th, with Twites, great many. On the
English coast, Whitby L.V., Sept. 27th, with many others. At Corton
L.V., Oct. 5th, one E. to W. At Swin Middle L.V., Sept. 18th, sunrise
to 10 a.m., with Chaffinches to W.; and on previous day, Sept. 17th,
all day to N.N.W. with Swallows. At Gull L.V., Sept. 26th to Oct.
25th, on six days with other birds to W. and S.W.; continuous all day
on Oct. 24th and 25th. At South-sand Head L.V., Oct. 18th and 21st,
Linnets with others all day; 26th, all day with others to W. and N.W.
Immense numbers appear to have crossed from Oct. 1st to 26th at the
stations off the Essex and Kent coasts; none, or very few only, at
stations north of this.

Twite, _Linota flavirostris_.--Is not recorded on the English coast.
At Heligoland, Oct. 16th, many passed, first comers; and on 17th,
great many; 20th, great many; and on 25th, 26th, and 27th, lesser
flights; 28th, many with Linnets.

Bullfinch, _Pyrrhula europæa_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 7th, one, young;
8th, one, young, in garden; 10th, some; 11th, a few; 19th, some;
25th, a few; and through November and December in small parties of
ten to twelve; have not been seen on the island for ever so many
years. At Spurn, some were seen last week in November; and during the
last fortnight in the same month, many in North-east Lincolnshire.
Mr. J. H. Gurney, writing from Reigate, Jan. 4th, 1881, says, "There
are more Bullfinches in this part of Surrey than I think I ever saw."
Extraordinary numbers were seen in Mayo and Sligo, Ireland, in the
last autumn and winter (See 'Zoologist,' 1881, p. 133).

Crossbill, _Loxia curvirostra_.--At Heligoland, Oct. 7th, one young
bird.

Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_.--Next to the Lark, this species
undoubtedly takes the second rank numerically amongst the migrants.
The young birds crossed Heligoland in large numbers from June 15th
to July 5th. The old birds beginning to move about Sept. 11th, and
from that time to Oct. 27th, enormous numbers passed. On the English
coast they are recorded at twenty-five stations, from the Longstone
to the Hanois L.H., Guernsey. At Longstone L.H., Nov. 19th, large
flocks to W. At Farne Inner L.H., Sept. 30th, to Nov. 13th (Oct.
15th, rush), when they passed all day westward. At Coquet L.H., Oct.
1st and 11th. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Nov. 27th, large flocks from
S.E. to N.W. At Whitby L.H., July 23rd, one hundred young birds to S.
At Flamborough L.H., great numbers in November. At Spurn L.H., Oct.
14th to Nov. 27th, Oct. 23rd and 24th, and Nov. 27th to 30th, all day
from N. to S. At Spurn L.V., Oct. 17th, thirty came on board; 27th,
Starlings and Larks; two dozen caught going S. At Inner Dowsing L.V.,
Jan. 4th, one dead on deck at sunrise. At Hunstanton L.H., Oct. 8th,
4 a.m., o.m., rain, E., hundreds with Larks round light, fifteen
killed. At Cromer L.H., Jan. 3rd, 1881, 3 a.m., one killed. At Leman
and Ower L.V., Sept. 28th and 29th, and Oct. 19th, during night; At
Hasboro' L.H., Sept. 13th and 14th, 11 p.m. to midnight, with Larks,
twenty stunned, young birds; 27th, midnight, four killed, young;
Dec. 27th, midnight, with Larks and Blackbirds. At Newarp L.V.,
Oct. 13th to 25th, on three days to W. At Corton L.V., Sept. 27th,
Oct. 4th, and Nov. 17th, E. to W. At Galloper L.V., Oct. 13th to
Nov. 11th, nearly every day large flocks going N.W., day and night,
sometimes alone, at others with Larks and small birds. At Kentish
Knock L.V., Oct. 8th, 10th, and 13th, to W.S.W., with Larks and many
other birds. At Shipwash L.V., Sept. 21st to Nov. 23rd, on several
days, sometimes with Larks N. and N.W. At Swin Middle L.V., Aug.
28th, flocks to W. with other birds; and Oct. 30th, to W. with Larks.
At South-sand Head L.V., Oct. 10th, continuous with others; also on
17th, 18th, 22nd, and 26th, to W. At East Goodwin L.V., Sept. 24th
and 25th, hazy, flocks about ship with Sparrows on 25th; Oct. 16th,
hundreds E. to W. At Casquets L.H., Oct. 13th to 17th, midnight,
rain. Starlings amongst other birds to N.W. At Hanois L.H., Guernsey,
Aug. 14th, night, with many others; Dec. 2nd, midnight, o.m., half
a dozen struck. The young migrate first; the old in October and
November. Have crossed in the greatest number at the more southern
stations, travelling all hours of the day and night in westerly and
north-westerly directions; constantly associated with Larks in their
migrations. The majority crossed from Oct. 19th to 26th. Again there
was a "second rush" near the end of November, and a third the second
week in January, before the outbreak of severe weather.

Rose-coloured Starling, _Pastor roseus_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 17th,
one, a young bird, occurred.

Grey Crow, _Corvus cornix_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 24th, commencing
with flocks of thirty to forty, and passing at intervals to end of
October, sometimes in immense numbers; Oct. 7th, towards evening an
enormous flight, during night fifty caught by lanterns; and after
this passing in smaller numbers to Nov. 2nd. On the English coast
they were noticed at seventeen stations, extending from the Farne
Islands to the mouth of the Thames. At Farne Inner L.H., Oct. 21st to
Nov. 20th, to W. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Sept. 10th, two E. to W.;
Oct. 12th, great many E.S.E. to W.N.W. At Teesmouth, Sept. 25th, two
seen; Oct. 16th and 20th, many. At Whitby L.H., Oct. 24th and 26th,
with Blackbirds at daylight. At Flamborough L.H., Oct. 8th, enormous
numbers seen. At Spurn, Oct. 12th to Nov. 9th, great many. At Great
Cotes, Oct. 9th, 5.30 p.m., gale from N.E., large flock came in,
travelling from E. to W., very high. At Lynn Well, L.V., Oct. 10th
to 14th, continuous every day from S. to N.W.; again 22nd and 23rd,
all day S.E. to N.W. At Hunstanton L.H., Oct. 10th, 11th, and 12th,
many E. to W., wind E.N.E. At Northrepps, Oct. 13th, many to N.W. At
Leman and Ower L.V., Oct. 21st, 5 p.m., to N.W. At Cockle L.V., Oct.
11th, continuous to W.N.W., and E.N.E. At Corton L.V., Oct. 10th,
very high, E. to W., wind E.N.E.; 11th, continuous 9 a.m. to noon.
At mouth of Deben, Oct. 29th to Nov. 1st, in numbers. At Galloper
L.V., Oct. 24th to Nov. 9th, many flocks. At Shipwash L.V., Oct.
12th, 30th, and Nov. 3rd, flocks N.W. and N.N.W. At Swin Middle L.V.,
Oct. 22nd, noon to 3 p.m., with Rooks. At South-sand Head L.V., Sept.
16th, ten "Crows" to N.W.--may have been _Corvus corone_; Nov. 4th,
two hundred Crows to N.W. The majority of the Hooded Crows arrived
from Oct. 8th to 23rd, the greatest number on any given day probably
on the 11th. The main body passed on to the east coast between
Flamborough and Yarmouth, with northerly and easterly winds, and
travelling from E. to W., N.E. to S.W., and S.E. and S. to N.W.

Rook, _Corvus frugilegus_.--Enormous as have been the number of Crows
crossing the North Sea the Rook has probably quite equalled them.
None were noticed at Heligoland, or indeed at any station north of
the Humber; but from Spurn to the Southsand Head they are recorded at
sixteen stations, from Oct. 10th to Nov. 12th, the greatest number
crossing undoubtedly on Oct. 21st, and the majority during the autumn
at the more southern stations. Comparing the immigration of the Grey
Crow with the Rook we find that the former crossed more to the north
than the latter did. Thus Grey Crows are recorded from the Farnes to
the mouth of the Thames: the majority into Holderness, Lincolnshire
and Norfolk; the Rooks from Spurn to the South Foreland, the majority
into the southern counties. Each, however, came from, and travelled
to, the same points of the compass--E. to W., or N.E. to S.W., or
S.E. and S. to S.W.

Daw, _Corvus monedula_.--At Great Cotes, Oct. 19th, several, with
Rooks, coming in from the sea. At Northrepps, Oct. 14th, going N.W.
At Galloper L.V., Oct. 17th, 7.45 a.m., Rooks and Daws, three to four
hundred.

Jay, _Garrulus glandarius_.--Nil Return. There was, however, a
considerable influx into North-east Lincolnshire on or about the last
week in October.

Pie, _Pica rustica_.--At Northrepps, Oct. 17th, Mr. J. H. Gurney
observed two high up, going E.

Swallow, _Hirundo rustica_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 16th, passing S.
At Farne Inner L.H., Oct. 1st, several all day. At Coquet L.H., July
10th, numbers; Sept. 20th, 6 p.m., four. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V.,
July 27th, 6 to 7.30 p.m., wind S.W., moderate, six large flocks,
fifty to sixty each, north to south; Sept. 15th, 4 p.m., large
flocks to S. At Whitby L.H., Sept. 22nd, 4 p.m., last seen going S.
At Flamborough L.H., Sept. 17th, midday, great many. At Spurn L.H.,
Sept. 6th, all day young Swallows passing along Spurn promontory
towards S., each flock followed by Pipits. At Hunstanton L.V., Sept.
28th, large flock on lighthouse. At Leman and Ower L.V., July 29th,
6 a.m., numbers passed, some alighting on board, one struck and
killed. At Hasboro' L.H., Sept. 1st, 2 a.m., fog, flock, several
caught as they beat against lantern. At Winterton L.H., Sept. 3rd
to 9th, round lantern every day. At Swin Middle L.V., Sept. 15th,
all day to N.W.; 17th, with Linnets all day to N.N.W.; 18th, sunrise
to 9 a.m., two hundred to W. At North Foreland L.H., July 28th, 10
a.m. to 3 p.m., passing; 29th, six passed; Swallows also in numbers
from five to forty were seen flying round lantern during the last
week in September. At South-sand Head L.V., Sept. 23rd, twelve to W,
At Casquets L.H., Oct. 7th, from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m., S.S.E., rain.
Swallows, Landrails, Water Rails, Woodcocks, King Ouzels, and Common
Thrushes were seen round light; amongst the birds striking the glass
were one hundred Swallows. At Hanois L.H., Guernsey, Sept. 30th,
a flight passed south. Swallows were noticed migrating at fifteen
stations on the east coast and in the Channel from July 10th, at
Coquet Island, to Oct. 7th, at the Casquets, the greater part in
September. Migrate both by day and night, and in very considerable
flocks; general direction north to south, but at Swin Middle L.V.,
S.E. to N.W. Swallows remained very late in the autumn of the past
year in some localities. In North-east Lincolnshire, Nov. 9th, a
pair seen. In Essex, Nov. 4th. In 'The Zoologist' for 1881, p. 62,
the editor records the late stay of the Swallow at eight stations,
all southern ones except Dublin, from Nov. 22nd to Dec. 11th. It is
rather remarkable that, in North-east Germany, Swallows are recorded
in the German newspapers as taking their departure nearly a month
before the average time.

Martin, _Chelidon urbica_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 1st, with Swifts
passing on overhead, N.W., clear, little wind, warm. At Outer Dowsing
L.V., Sept. 21st, sunset, two flying round lantern. At mouth of
Deben, Nov. 1st, many Martins and Sand Martins seen. At South-sand
Head L.V., Sept. 1st, twelve to S. One was seen at Henley-on-Thames
on Dec. 18th (Zool., 1881, p. 62).

Swift, _Cypselus apus_.--At Heligoland, June 1st, some passing; Sept.
1st, passing on overhead; 16th, great many. At Whitby L.H., Sept.
16th, 4 p.m., flock to S. At Spurn L.H., Aug. 27th, 6.30 a.m., great
number to S.; Sept. 6th, again migrating; on June 7th, at 7 p.m.,
fifty were seen perched on gallery of lighthouse. At Cockle L.V.,
July 11th, two to N.W. Very few have been observed in comparison with
the enormous flight which passed up the coast in the autumn of 1879.

Nightjar, _Caprimulgus europæus_.--At Hasborough L.V., Sept. 24th, 10
p.m., one killed against lantern. Occurs every year at Spurn in the
autumn as a migrant.

Cuckoo, _Cuculus canorus_.--At Heligoland, June 3rd, one old bird. At
Whitby L.H., July 4th, one caught, a young bird. At Spurn, Sept. 7th,
one seen, young. At Cromer L.H., July 28th, midnight, stunned.

Wryneck, _Jynx torquilla_.--At Heligoland, Aug. 13th, one young bird.

Hoopoe, _Upupa epops_.--One recorded in the 'Field' of Nov. 6th as
shot at Redcar, middle of September. At Bridlington, Sept. 15th,
one. At Holt, Norfolk, Sept. 22nd, one, a male, in a turnip-field.
At Woodham Mortimer, Essex, one shot Sept. 20th. At Crofton, near
Wakefield, Oct. 29th, one shot and another seen.

Bee-eater, _Merops apiaster_.--At Tetney Haven, seven miles S. of
Grimsby, one on Aug. 16th (Zool., 1880, p. 511).

Great Spotted Woodpecker, _Picus major_.--At Spurn, Oct. 27th, one
shot, a few red feathers on the crown of the head, and in an advanced
state of moult. At Great Cotes, Dec. 8th, one.

King Dove or Wood Pigeon, _Columba palumbus_.--At Heligoland, Sept.
25th, twenty to thirty. At Tongue L.V., Dec. 30th, 2.30 p.m., nine
"Pigeons" going N. At Casquets L.H., Oct. 13th to 17th, midnight,
Wood Pigeons from French to English coast going N.W.

Turtle Dove, _Turtur communis_.--At Flamborough, first week in
October, one. At Great Cotes, Oct. 8th, N.E. gale and rain, one seen.
At Casquets, Sept. 7th, 10 p.m. to 3 a.m., fifteen striking.

Golden Plover, _Charadrius pluvialis_.--At Heligoland, July 3rd, E.,
passing over day and night in great numbers; 4th, about twenty young
birds; 23rd and 24th, young birds; Aug. 10th, flights of hundreds,
all young; 12th and 13th, northerly, fine, many high overhead; Sept.
3rd, great number of waders during night; 8th and 9th, great many;
16th, a.m., flights of dozens, p.m. flights of hundreds; Oct. 28th,
many thousands over sea. At Farne Inner L.H., Aug. 12th to 28th,
flocks to and from land every day; Nov. 23rd and 24th, all day. At
Coquet Island L.H., Nov. 21st and Dec. 10th, all day. At Teesmouth,
Sept. 25th, twenty seen. At Spurn L.H., Sept. 5th, flocks "Plover"
N. to S. during day. At Great Cotes, Dec. 9th, immense flights,
old birds. At Dudgeon L.V., Aug. 7th, 3 a.m. to midnight, in small
parties, general direction W.; 25th, some; Oct. 28th, about one
hundred to W. None at southern stations.[8] The young birds of the
year migrate across Heligoland as early as the first week in July,
and so on into August. The old birds later and in separate flocks.
The migration of old birds as seen at Spurn going towards the
north is exceptional, the rule on the east coast being a few old
black-breasted birds in August and September, often with Lapwings,
then flocks of young birds, and later in November the "great rush" of
old birds.

[Footnote 8: My friend Major Seddon, of Waltham, informs me that,
when at Spurn with his yacht, on the night of Aug. 22nd, he saw
thousands of Golden Plover passing north along the sea-shore in
detached flocks, flying in lines and arrow-heads; he was near enough
to see that the upper parts were speckled with the "golden drop,"
and the under parts mottled black and white, as if changing from the
summer to the winter dress.]

Grey Plover, _Squatarola helvetica_.--At Heligoland, June 15th,
16th, and 17th, repeatedly; not mentioned afterwards in report. At
Spurn L.H., July 25th, three on the muds; Aug. 29th, two. On Essex
coast, Aug. 14th, Major Russell saw a flock or two, all having black
breasts. The young arrive in August and September; old birds later in
October and November; a few old birds having black or mottled breasts
are often seen in July or early in August. Some birds of the previous
year, or in their second summer, sometimes remain on the coast during
the summer.

Lapwing, _Vanellus vulgaris_.--At Heligoland, July 3rd, with many
others high overhead, day and night; 4th, in astounding numbers
with Curlews. At Farne Inner L.H., Aug. 12th to 28th, with Golden
Plovers to and from land daily. At Coquet Island L.H., Nov. 16th
to Dec. 30th, on several days; "rush," Nov. 21st and Dec. 10th. At
Spurn L.H., Sept. 5th, flocks N. to S. during day. At Great Cotes,
Oct. 20th, gale from N., flocks E. to W. At Outer Dowsing L.V., June
21st, two came on board; left at 9 a.m. for W. At Dudgeon L.V., Aug.
7th, 3 a.m. to midnight, "Plovers," small parties, general direction
W. At Lynn Well L.V., Nov. 7th and 23rd, Dec. 20th and 29th, S.E. to
N.W. At Hasboro' L.H., Nov. 15th, Gulls and Plovers to S.; Dec. 17th,
"Plovers" to S. At Cockle L.V., July 10th, two Lapwings to N.W. At
Galloper L.V., Oct. 28th, 9.20 a.m., thirty "Pewit" to N.W. At Swin
Middle L.V., Sept. 20th, "six birds like Crows."[9] At Casquets L.H.,
Oct. 7th, 12 p.m., flock to N.W. Appear to have crossed at irregular
times, and at some stations in considerable numbers; from July 3rd,
at Heligoland, to the end of December, at Lynn Well and Coquet Island.

[Footnote 9: To which my correspondent quaintly adds in a note, "the
six birds like Crows which passed on the 20th, cried 'pee-weet' as
they passed."]

Dotterel, _Eudromias morinellus_.--At Heligoland, July 24th, one
shot. At Teesmouth, a dozen seen about middle of September. Very
rarely observed at British stations during the autumn migration.

Ringed Plover, _Ægialitis hiaticula_,--At Heligoland, July 1st,
great many with Redshanks the whole day passing on high overhead;
3rd, same, day and night; 5th, same. At Swin Middle L.V., very large
flocks of "Ox-birds"[10] passed, going N.W., in October, November,
December, and January.

[Footnote 10: Dunlin ?]

Oystercatcher, _Hæmatopus ostralegus_.--At Coquet L.H., Aug. 16th,
N.E., great numbers all day. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Aug. 16th,
flock of "Mussel-crackers." At Hunstanton L.H., from Aug. 2nd for
several weeks, large flocks of Oystercatchers and Curlews passing
S.W. at ebb, returning E. at flood.

Dusky Redshank, _Totanus fascus_.--At Heligoland, June 15th, 16th,
and 17th, repeatedly. Redshank, _T. calidris_, July 1st, great many
whole day passing high overhead, and on 3rd, day and night, with many
others; 5th, also many; Aug. 10th, one Dusky Redshank, a young bird;
shot; Sept. 3rd, night, great many _Totani_ and _Tringæ_; Sept. 8th,
great many also.

Knot, _Tringa canutus_.--At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Sept. 10th, first
seen. At Teesmouth, July 30th, ten or twelve old birds. At Spurn,
July 24th, one, an old male, in somewhat faded plumage, killed
against telegraph-wire. At Great Cotes, Aug. 16th, large flocks of
young birds in the Humber; November, first week, old birds. At Lynn
Well L.V., Jan. 1st, 2nd, and 3rd (1881), 9 p.m. to midnight. Knots
with Larks, fifteen killed.

Curlew Sandpiper, _Tringa subarquata_.--At Heligoland, July 4th, some
few.

Purple Sandpiper, _Tringa striata_.--Several in October and November
at Spurn, also on Lincolnshire and Norfolk coasts.

Temminck's Stint, _Tringa Temmincki_.--Sept. 29th, seen on North
Norfolk coast.

Sanderling, _Calidris arenaria_ At Spurn, Aug. 16th, in small flocks,
young birds. In September and October, first fortnight very numerous,
afterwards less.

Grey Phalarope, _Phalaropus fulicarius_,--On Lincolnshire coast, Oct.
21st, one, a female. At Harwich river, Nov. 17th, one seen.

Woodcock, _Scolopax ruisticula_.--At Heligoland, Sept. 25th,
six to eight shot; 29th, some; Oct. 15th, six to eight; 16th,
afternoon, about twenty shot; 21st, N.E. and N.N.E., stormy, some
with Blackbirds; 22nd, S.W., squally, very great many flying about,
seventy to eighty shot; Nov. 9th, S.W., one dozen shot during day;
19th, still some. At Farne Inner L.H., Oct. 20th to 29th, N. or E.,
on six days, one or two; Dec. 27th, one. At Coquet Island L.H.,
Oct. 30th, 7 a.m., one; Nov. 10th, 3 a.m., N.W., one killed; 16th,
9 a.m., two. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Oct. 13th, 22nd, and 26th,
9 to 11 a.m. one or two each day going E. to W. At Teesmouth, Oct.
5th, 6th, 19th, and 20th, one each day. At Flamborough L.H., Sept.
2nd, one seen near lighthouse; Oct. 19th, great flight, twenty shot,
"small and very dark-coloured birds." At Spurn L.H., Oct. 5th, two;
19th to 22nd, upwards of one hundred shot near Spurn; 27th, five
seen. On Lincolnshire coast, Oct. 19th, near Skegness, forty-three
shot, seventy altogether during week. At Outer Dowsing L.V., Nov.,
23rd, N.W., 2 p.m., three from E. to W.; Dec. 6th, 2 p.m., two,
same direction. At Inner Dowsing L.V., Oct. 29th, one dead on deck
at sunrise. At Lynn Well L.V., Oct. 28th, one with a Lapwing killed
at midnight. Near Cromer, Oct. 19th, great flight, twenty shot in
neighbourhood. At Corton L.V., Nov. 9th, noon, five to N. very low.
On Essex coast, many seen between Oct. 29th and Nov. 1st; three
came on board a smack off mouth of Deben. At Casquets L.H., Oct.
7th, 11 p.m. to 3 a.m., with other birds round lantern. Woodcocks
began moving early in September; the "great flight" on to the east
coast from Flamborough to Yarmouth was on the night of Oct. 18th or
early morning of 19th, north-east gale, with snow in the north, and
was followed by other flights on the next two or three days. Over
Heligoland the great flight was on the afternoon of Oct. 22nd, with
wind S.W., and squally. They were observed at fourteen stations, from
the Farne Islands to the Casquets; are reported as scarce north of
Flamborough and south of Essex, the main stream evidently coming into
Holderness, Lincolnshire, and Norfolk.

Great Snipe, _Gallinago major_.--At Farne Inner L.H., Nov. 3rd, one
on island.

Common Snipe, Gallinago cælestis.--At Farne Inner L.H., Nov. 27th to
Dec. 27th, many. At Great Cotes, "great flight" from Oct. 20th to end
of month, only remaining a day or two. On Essex coast, Oct. 29th to
Nov. 1st, large numbers, but only remaining a few hours.

Jack Snipe, _Gallinago gallinula_.--At Farne Inner L.H., Nov. 9th,
two to N.W.; 18th, two, same. At Great Cotes, Nov. 2nd, first seen.
On Norfolk coast, Sept. 30th, one seen; are very scarce on the east
coast this winter.

Bar-tailed Godwit, _Limosa lapponica_.--At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V.,
Sept. 17th, flock of twenty. At Teesmouth, Aug. 16th and 23rd, Sept.
1st and 5th, flocks each day. On Essex coast, Aug. 14th, a few of the
immature second year birds--probably had remained on the coast all
through the summer.

Curlew, _Numenius arquata_.--At Heligoland, July 4th, "astounding
numbers early in the morning"; July 5th, some; Aug. 11th, 12th, and
18th, many passing overhead. At Farne Inner L.H., September, several.
At Coquet L.H., July 30th, two seen; 31st, one score, northwards.
At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Sept. 15th, great many. At Whitby L.H.,
Aug. 2nd, 11 a.m., flocks going south, "supposed to be young birds."
At Flamborough, great numbers last week in August. At Spurn L.H.,
Sept. 8th, four round lantern going N. to S.; 17th, 3 a.m., with
Plover, two Curlews killed. At Hunstanton L.H., large flocks on
coast from Aug. 2nd; Oct. 6th, o.m., rain, 7.80 p.m., one struck and
caught. At Cromer L.H., Aug. 21st, 11.30 p.m., two struck, stunned.
At Hasborough L.H., Oct. 8th, noon to 3 p.m., E., flights going S.
At Winterton L.H., June 17th, 11 p.m., one seen going to W., passed
close to lantern; Sept. 12th, 10 a.m., a dozen to W. At Kentish Knock
L.V., Aug. 6th, one very high to W. At Swin Middle L.V., Aug. 26th to
Sept. 17th, on five days at about 3 p.m., going N.W.; Jan. 2nd and
3rd, fog, on both nights, many with other birds round lantern; killed
three Curlews, one Duck, thirty-two Larks, two Ox-birds; total,
thirty-eight. At North Foreland L.H., July 27th, four to N.W.; Sept.
9th, five to N.N.W.; Dec. 4th, thirty to forty about. At North-sand
Head L.V., Aug. 1st, noon, "shoals" E. to W. At South-sand Head L.V.,
Sept. 3rd, twenty to W.; 27th, twenty or thirty to W. At East Goodwin
L.V., Sept. 6th, eight N. to S. The main body migrates in August and
early in September; general direction E. to W., or up the coast from
N. to S.

Whimbrel, _Numenius phæopus_.--At Teesmouth, July 4th, several
flocks; 21st, eight or nine flocks. At Spurn L.H., July 25th,
several. At Great Cotes, passing in July, August, and September, very
high to south.

Heron, _Ardea cinerea_.--At Coquet L.H., July 28th, 5 p.m., one: Aug.
13th, 3 a.m., two; Sept. 4th, 6 a.m., two; Dec. 26th, 9 a.m., one. At
Teesmouth, Redcar, Sept. 21st, five; 24th, one; Oct. 23rd, 4 p.m.,
N.E., mod. gale, two. At Flamborough L.H., June 12th, two. Only at
the more northern stations. That some arrive on the east coast in the
autumn there can be no doubt; a few years since one was brought in
alive to Grimsby, taken at sea on board one of the Hamburg boats.

Water-Rail and Land-Rail, _Rallus aquaticus_ and _Crex
pratensis_.--At Casquets L.H., Oct. 2nd, 11 p.m. to 2 a.m., some
killed; Oct. 7th, 11 p.m. to 3 a.m., several with Water Rails, some
killed.

Whooper, _Cygnus musicus_.--At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Oct. 29th,
10.30 a.m., wind strong from N.N.E., six, all white. At Flamborough,
during the severe weather early in January, 1881, several flocks
came into Bridlington Bay, numbering from six to twenty in a flock.
At Spurn, Dec. 31st, two Whoopers, one shot. Several in the Humber
during the first half of January. At Inner Dowsing L.V., Jan. 21st,
1 p.m., five N.E. to S.W. At Corton L.V., Jan. 10th, 1881, a flock
of about thirty very high to N.W. The severe weather commencing Dec.
30th brought considerable numbers of Wild Swans on to our east coast.

Wild Geese, _Anser_.--Under this general term numbers of Geese are
recorded at east coast stations. At Heligoland, Sept. 6th, great many
overhead; Oct. 19th, great flights. _Anser brachyrhynchus_, Oct.
15th, one young bird shot. At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Sept. 15th,
flock of fifteen "Grey Geese" N. to S.; 25th, six "Grey Geese" to
S. At Teesmouth, Oct. 16th, 7 a.m., flock; 19th, 7 a.m., same. At
Flamborough L.H., several flocks "Grey Geese" early in October. At
Outer Dowsing L.V., Dec. 2nd, 11 a.m., five Wild Geese N.N.E. to S.W.
At Lynn Well L.V., July 3rd, eight Grey Geese E. to W.; Oct. 3rd,
twenty to south. At Winterton L.H., June 19th, 7 p.m., fifty flying
very low. At Gull L.V., Sept. 21st, forty to S.; Oct. 19th, 10 a.m.
to 3 p.m., three flocks to S.; 30th, flock of forty to W. At East
Goodwin L.V., Nov. 22nd and 23rd, two small flocks E. to W. and N.
to S. At Casquets L.H., Sept. 7th, 2 p.m., Geese going W. Migration
south in September and October, the main body in the latter month.
At Winterton a flock was seen on June 19th, and a small flock at the
Lynn Well L.V., July 3rd, which looks very much as if some remained
on the English coast throughout the summer, as is the case with the
Scoter and many of the _Limicolæ_, as Grey Plover, Godwit, Knot, and
Whimbrel.

Egyptian Goose, _Anser ægyptiacus_.--At Farne L.H., Nov. 2nd, N.N.E.,
squally, 10 a.m., two seen flying northward. My informant also says
that he shot a pair on the island in October, 1876.

Snow Goose, _Chen hyperboreus_.--At Heligoland, Dec. 25th, "one on
cliff, not shot, no doubt about it."

Brent Goose, _Bernicla brenta_.--At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Sept.
25th, 11 a.m., first seen; Nov. 21st, flock of sixteen to W. At
Spurn, great many in Humber, inside Spurn, in December and January;
amongst these there was an unusual number of the white-bellied
variety. On Essex coast, Oct. 6th, first heard of; 20th, one hundred
or more seen on Buxby Sand.

Anas.--Under the general head of "Wild Duck," immense numbers of
Ducks have been observed at various of the east coast stations. At
Farne Inner L.H., Nov. 1st, "Mallard" flock to N. At Coquet L.H.,
Aug. 20th, large flocks all day to S.; Oct. 6th, one Eider; 22nd,
N.; Dec. 23rd, N.; 31st, N.W., large flocks all day from N. to S. At
Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Aug. 16th, six Teal; 26th, large flock from
N.E.; Sept. 10th, twenty-six Sheldrakes, same day large flock of
Widgeon; Oct. 12th to 22nd, immense number of Widgeon; Dec. 16th,
large flock of Teal to S.E. At Teesmouth, Oct. 28th, Ducks in endless
flocks morn and noon, all kinds, N.E. hurricane, hail, snow, rain. At
Flamborough, Jan. 3rd to 7th, both Geese and Ducks to south in great
numbers. At Spurn, Nov. 4th, great number of various sorts in Humber;
and during the last half of December and in January, enormous flocks
of various sorts driven into the river by stress of weather. At Outer
Dowsing L.V., July 20th, 28th, and Aug. 10th, about 7 p.m., forty or
fifty each day S.E. to N.N.W. At Lynn Well L.V., Sept. 25th, great
quantities S.E. to N.W. At Winterton L.H., Aug. 23rd, twenty-one
Sheldrakes to E. On Essex coast, Aug. 7th, Widgeon, six young birds
seen; 28th, many, wind N.N.W. veering to N.N.E. At Galloper L.V.,
Nov. 9th, twenty "Smee Ducks"; Widgeon during night, At Kentish Knock
L.V., Sept. 29th, calm, "Wild Ducks," flock at midnight N.E. to S.W.
At Swin Middle L.V., Aug. 31st to Sept. 20th, on fourteen days "Wild
Ducks" all going N.W. or N.N.W.; Sept. 5th, "great rush." At North
Foreland, Sept. 25th, twenty to thirty to N. along shore; Oct. 6th,
thirty or forty to S.W. At Goodwin L.V., Sept. 27th to Oct. 29th,
"Wild Ducks" going E. to W. or N.N.W.; Nov. 4th to 29th, from N.W. to
S.E. Migration extending from about the middle of July to the end of
October. The greater part arriving in September and October, not only
from the north and north-east, but also from S.E. and S.S.E. on to
the English coast.

Black Scoter, _Œdemia nigra_.--The migration of this species appears
greatly to have exceeded that of any other Duck. They have been seen
in large numbers during the autumn at various stations on the coast
and at sea, passing as a rule towards the south. At Teesmouth, Oct.
2nd, two Black Scoters seen. At Lynn Well L.V., Oct. 17th and 24th,
large flocks of Scoters all day from S. to N.W. and S.E. to W. The
direction in this case caused by birds passing over from North-west
Norfolk to Lincolnshire coast. Jan. 1st, one killed against lantern.
At Newarp L.V., Sept. 22nd to Oct. 15th, several days, flocks going
to S.W. At Cockle L.V., Sept. 27th, 6 to 10 a.m., in large flocks to
N.W. At Corton L.V., Nov. 16th, noon, hundreds N. to S.; Dec. 12th
to 28th, numerous flocks from N.N.E. to W.S.W. and S.E. to N.W. At
Tongue L.V., Dec. 29th, 9 a.m. to noon, several flocks to W. At Gull
L.V., July 22nd and 23rd, flocks to S.E.; Aug. 20th to Dec. 3rd, on
several days to W.S.W. and S. At South-sand Head L.V., July 21st, two
flocks, thirty and fifty to S., and from this to Oct. 16th, frequent
flocks going as a rule S. At East Goodwin L.V., July 5th, 6th, 9th,
and 10th, first two days, small flocks E. to W.; on the 9th, a
thousand or more going N. to S.

Colymbidæ.--At Farne Inner L.H., Sept. 10th, two. Great Northern
Diver, _Columbus glacialis_, Nov. 2nd, six "speckled" about
island. At Teesmouth, several Red-throated Divers, _Colymbus
septentrionalis_, early morning. Mr. J. H. Gurney informs me that
when Mr. F. D. Power was off Cley, on the Norfolk coast, this autumn,
on Oct. 1st, he saw a remarkable flight of Red-throated Divers along
coast eastward; they flew forty to fifty yards high, but rarely came
near the boat; one shot had a perfect red throat.

Podicipitidæ.--At Hunstanton L.H., Sept. 2nd, 9 p.m., o.m., Little
Grebe, _Podiceps fluviatilis_, struck and caught. At Hasboro' L.H.,
Dec. 3rd, 2 a.m., fog, Little Grebe killed, being the second in
eighteen months. Sclavonian Grebe, _Podiceps auritus_, one, a female,
was shot near Easington, Spurn, on Jan. 11th, 1881, and Great Crested
Grebe, _P. cristatus_, in Whitby Harbour on the 16th of the same
month.

Alcidæ.--At Heligoland, Nov. 26th, Common Guillemots in great numbers
on the cliff, their breeding quarters; Dec. 10th, early morning,
cliffs covered; 13th, thousands, at least half black-bearded.

Cormorant, _Phalacrocorax carbo_.--At Hunstanton L.H., Aug. 24th,
eight passing E.

Gannet, _Sula bassana_.--At Spurn L.V., Oct. 1st to 16th, many to
S. At Outer Dowsing L.V., Oct. 27th, 9 a.m., eight to S. At Cockle
L.V., Oct. 16th, several; 25th, fifteen to W.; 27th, great numbers.
At Corton L.V., Oct. 16th, many to S. At Casquets, Aug. 22nd, and on
Dec. 8th, manly to N.N.W. Was seen off the Casquets as early as Aug.
22nd. The main migration appears to have taken place in October, from
N. to S. along the east coast.

Sterninæ.--At Heligoland, July, Caspian Tern, _Sterna Caspia_,
frequently seen. At Farne Inner L.H., Aug. 28th, both the Sandwich
and Arctic Terns left the islands. At the Longstone L.H., on the
extreme outer reef of the Farnes, the Sandwich Tern was seen last
on Sept. 8th, and the Arctic Sept. 14th. At Coquet Island L.H.,
Aug. 14th, N.N.E., great number of Terns all day about island. At
Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Aug. 16th, great numbers this day; 29th, same.

Larinæ.--At Heligoland, the Siberian Herring Gull, _Larus affinis_,
was seen off the rock on June 5th, N.W., strong. Little Gull, _Larus
minutus_, Sept. 5th, enormous numbers on the water. Ivory Gull,
_Larus eburnea_, Nov. 4th, westerly, seen on water. At Farne Inner
L.H., Sept. 10th, the Gulls left islands. At Whitby L.H., Sept. 2nd,
Gulls had all left, both young and old. At Filey, Ivory Gull, _Larus
eburnea_, a fully mature example, a male, was shot in September;
a young bird in the spotted plumage was also obtained in the same
month. At Flamborough, Sept. 5th to 6th, Lesser Black-backed Gulls to
south all day; wind S.W. by W.; equal proportion of young and old. At
Spurn L.V., July 29th and 30th, "Smelt Gulls" all day; Sept. 28th,
large numbers of Gulls continuous to south. At Lynn Well L.V., Aug.
21st, 22nd, and 23rd, great quantities all day from S.E. At Yarmouth,
Mr. J. H. Gurney, writing Jan. 26th, 1881, says, "A correspondent at
Yarmouth had recently twenty-seven Glaucous Gulls in the flesh, seven
of which were mature." At Hasboro' L.H., Dec. 18th, 8 p.m., "Little
Gull" struck and broke its neck. At Cockle L.V., Oct. 16th, Gulls
during day; 27th, same. At Shipwash L.V., Nov. 29th, 10 a.m., large
numbers to W. At South-sand Head L.V., July 29th, an unusual number
seen.

Stercorariinæ.--At Teesmouth 5 Buoy L.V., Aug. 29th, two Skuas
passed. At Redcar, Sept. 16th, twenty Richardson's Skuas passed;
Oct. 28th, Mr. T. H. Nelson, writing in the 'Field' newspaper for
Nov. 6th, 1880, states that, during the night of the storm on Oct.
28th, he saw considerable numbers of the Pomatorhine Skua, amounting
to several hundreds, flying close to the esplanade at Redcar, and
struggling to make headway against the gale; they consisted almost
entirely of mature birds of the white-breasted variety, only three
or four being dark birds, but whether immature or adult he could not
ascertain. At Spurn L.V., Aug. 1st to Sept. 24th, a few Skuas passed
going S.; Oct. 1st to 16th, many passed same direction. At South-sand
Head L.V., July 29th, an unusual number of Skuas seen.

Procellariidæ.--At Coquet L.H., July 22nd, 11 p.m., misty, one Petrel
caught against glass of lantern, examined and set at liberty. At
Redcar, Oct. 28th, two Stormy and one Fulmar Petrels picked up during
great gale. At Flamborough, first week in October, Stormy Petrel. At
Spurn, Oct. 28th, Stormy Petrels after great gale. At Galloper L.V.,
Nov. 6th, 2 to 4 p.m., twelve Stormy Petrels about ship. At Gull
L.V., Oct. 9th, 2 a.m., N., several struck glass, none killed.

Independent of these very numerous notes on known species, the
schedules contain many notices of birds the species of which were
either not known or not recognised. At the Hasborough L.H., Oct.
26th, 10 p.m., E., o.m., a great many various small birds; eight
killed were Larks and Thrushes. At Swin Middle L.V., Sept. 9th and
12th, flocks of small birds passed all night to N.W. At Hanois L.H.,
Sept. 8th and 27th, fog and rain, evening to 9 p.m., great rush of
small birds of many sorts.


General Remarks.

The report for 1880 compared with that of the previous year shows
very similar results, as in 1879 a considerable proportion of the
immigrants crossed at the more southern stations, or at the narrowest
portion of the North Sea. If we divide the east coast into three
divisions, one north-easterly from the Farne Islands to the Humber,
mid-east from the Humber to Yarmouth, and south-eastern forward to
the South Foreland, we find that in 1879 the main body of migrants
passed in the south-eastern division; in 1880 they have been
tolerably equally distributed over the mid and south-eastern. During
the principal month of migration, October, the wind blew persistently
day by day and week by week from northerly and easterly quarters,
and to this cause we may fairly attribute the deflection of migrants
to the south. In support of this I may quote the letter of Mr. Thos.
O. Hall of the Longstone Lighthouse, who, writing under date Feb.
15th, 1881, says:--"The chief flight undoubtedly took place on the
15th and 16th of October, at which time I was on shore. I have been
resident on the Farne Islands thirteen years, and during that time
never remember seeing so few birds as we have had this autumn. I
have remarked that when the flight takes place with the wind at E.
or N.E., the body of birds is to the south of us about Whitby and
southward."

Notwithstanding the enormous number of immigrants arriving, as shown
in our returned schedules from each station, we may be quite certain
these returns only represent an almost inappreciable percentage of
the actual number on passage. On days of uncertain light or on clear
fine starlight nights, when migration is carried on at a considerable
height, immense numbers of birds might pass any station for hours
without a chance of observation; and it is quite possible that, if
the whole three hundred miles of coast were studded with floating
posts of observation at the distance of half a mile, equal average
results would have been obtained, our present stations on the
light-vessels affording no more especial line of advantage than any
other imaginary line drawn across the North Sea. Incredible although
it may appear, we believe that the vast majority of the immigrants
coming to us in the autumn in one broad front from east to west are
such as cross with the intention of remaining the winter in some part
or other of the British Islands, and naturally take the place of our
own resident summer species which have left, or are about leaving us,
for the south.

As in 1879 the main line of migration has been a broad stream from
east to west, and covering the whole of the English east coast, this
is the line mainly followed by the _Passeres_. Taking this line as a
basis, we find birds also occasionally coming from points north of
east; but in the vast majority of instances the migration has had
a decidedly southerly trend, coming from points south of east, and
even direct from the southward. Again, there is in the autumn always
a steady stream of migrants which closely follows the coast-line
from N. to S., composed of birds either moving from more northerly
districts of our islands, or of such immigrants coming from the east
as strike the coast in more northern latitudes and then follow it to
the south. The great wide E. to W. stream of migration is composed
of some few well-known species which regularly come to us in the
autumn, the great body undoubtedly remaining to winter; placed
in order of rotation according to their numerical superiority or
otherwise, we find _Alauda arvensis_, _Sturnus vulgaris_, _Corvus
cornix_ and _frugilegus_, the _Turdidæ_, including two native and two
northern species, with sparrows, linnets, and chaffinches compose
the bulk of the immigrants. Others, as _Ruticilla phœnicurus_, the
_Saxicolæ_, and other soft-billed insect-eaters, although coming from
the eastward, persistently follow the coast-line to the south. All
the _Limicolæ_ and other shore birds, as well as the Geese, Ducks,
Divers, Gulls, and sea-fowl generally, move from north to south as a
general rule, the sea-fowl at some distance at sea, the waders along
the coast. Although so far we have no stations, excepting Heligoland,
on the European coast of the North Sea, we may, I think, fairly
presume that there is similarly another stream of birds passing
down the coast-line of Europe. Migration as observed on that island
for many years points to the undoubted fact that the line followed
by birds is, as a rule, from E. to W., and doubtless some portion
of these Heligoland birds keep moving westward or south-westward,
till eventually they strike our east coast. There are, however,
many species which make Heligoland the western boundary of their
autumn wanderings, and crossing, as they do, that island in enormous
numbers, must eventually follow the coast-line to the south, for
the simple reason that they never occur on our own coast, except as
very rare or occasional wanderers; such are _Motacilla alba_ and
_flava_, _Ruticilla suecica_, _Emberiza hortulana_, _Plectrophanes
lapponicus_, _Anthus Richardi_, and, in a less degree, _Muscicapa
luctuosa_ and _Otocorys alpestris_. These all, then, must pass
southward along the European coast, as do doubtless an immense
majority of those countless Sparrowhawks, Siskins, and more familiar
birds which cross the island in the autumn migration; and just as
occasionally some species, whose line of migration lies farther to
the eastward still, turn up as wanderers to the old rock from the
regular track, so do occasionally now one and now another of the
regular Heligoland immigrants get blown across to one side.

The observations taken at some of our southern stations both in 1879
and 1880 show that, in the autumn, there is what may be called a
double stream of birds crossing each other near the entrance of the
English Channel, that is, from the Essex and Kent coast towards the
S.E. on to the French and Belgian coast, and again in the opposite
direction from the Belgian land to the coast of Kent. During the
severe weather in the early part of 1881, as well as in December,
flocks of birds came to us direct from the French coast, or from the
south to the north. These must be considered purely local migrations,
caused by outbursts of severe weather.

It is a curious fact that in nearly every case of birds passing
the Casquets L.H. in the past autumn, they were travelling in a
N.W. direction, or from the French to the English coast, a line of
migration which does not seem to be in proper accord with what we
should imagine migrating birds would or rather ought to take. On
reference to the chart of the Channel it is apparent that any flocks
leaving the French coast at or near Cape de la Hague, and crossing.
Alderney, when once off the Casquets might as readily and easily
steer for the Start Point on the English side as across the wide
break in the French coast for Port Sillon, each being about equal
distances from the Casquets.

As in 1879 birds have crossed in all hours of the day and night,
and in all winds and weathers, the returns also show, as did the
preceding, that they seldom fly dead to windward, except with light
breezes, and that strong head winds are prejudicial to their passage.
The line of flight mostly adopted is within three or four points
of the wind; they will go on well, even with a beam wind or some
points short of beam, if not too strong. Small birds have often much
difficulty in making head against a strongly-opposing wind. Mr. John
Cutting, writing from the light-vessel on the Galloper Bank, says,
that out of the number of small birds passing that station in October
and November against strong adverse winds, he could not think they
would ever reach land, they made such very slow progress, the wind
being too strong and the distance from land so great. Even such
strong-winged birds as the Grey Crow do not always cross in safety;
I have been told by an old fen farmer that, many years ago, when a
great gale swept the Lincolnshire coast, at the time the Hooded Crow
crossed, the coast was subsequently strewed with their bodies cast up
by the sea.

Birds are noticed at the stations as sometimes flying high, sometimes
low; often it will be observed with northerly and easterly winds they
will fly high, and with winds in opposite quarters, low. The state
of weather at the time of migration has more, we think, to do with
the height at which birds travel than the direction of the wind.
On clear light nights they travel high, as a rule, but in fog, and
thick murky weather, rain or snow, not far above the waves. On thick
nights, indeed, lost birds will wheel for hours round a lightship,
but with the first break in the clouds or streak of early dawn are on
their course again. At the Casquets, which is a revolving light, the
larger birds follow the rays, but do not often strike the glass.

With such favourable passages as light head winds afford, our
immigrants are so little fatigued that they will not alight on
reaching land, but keep on their course into the interior. I have
watched for hours flock after flock arriving on the east coast,
coming directly from westward, Rooks, Starlings, Lapwings, and Snow
Buntings, and keeping on in a direct westerly direction as far as
the eye or a good glass were able to follow. Often, too, when on
the hills, miles from the sea, I have seen migrating flocks passing
inland. Larks in straggling flocks, carrolling cheerily as they pass;
there is no bird which migrates so cheerily and light-heartedly as
the Lark, ever ready to burst into song on the least occasion. At
other times, with adverse winds, I have watched migrants scarce able
to struggle on shore dropping in the first shelter, or even on the
bare wind-swept coast. At Lynn Well light-vessel large numbers of
migrants passed day by day, and for the entire day, during October,
from S.E. or S.S.E., and even S. to N.W. From the position of this
station off Lynn Deeps at the bottom of the Wash, under the shelter
of the north-westerly trend of the coast, these migrants must have
first crossed the northern part of the county of Norfolk, without
alighting, on their way to the fens of Lincolnshire and Cambridge,
and this both by day and night.

    "Yet stoop not, weary, to the welcome land,
     Though the dark night is near."

It is very remarkable how suddenly the stream of migration commences
running, and how suddenly it stops again. We watch, at early morning,
a flock of Larks or Hooded Crows come to land; others soon follow,
and then for some hours--it may be from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m.--there is a
constant arrival of migrants; and then migration, at least for that
day, is over, and not a single wanderer will be seen.

As a rule, the young of the year migrate some weeks in advance of the
old birds; this holds good with all orders and species. In the spring
the males often migrate in advance of the females.

The time of migration of any particular species extends over a
considerable period; sometimes it is over in four or five weeks,
in other cases going on for months, and even half a year; for,
practically, such birds as the Lark and Starling are migrating all
the year round. In every case the migration of a set species will
continue, day by day, or week by week, till it attains the maximum
by a "great rush," the main body passing, and then gradually falling
off, till the migration of that species is completed.

Independent of the normal or ordinary migration, we have frequently
local migrations, due to sudden changes of weather, or in search of
fresh feeding-grounds. These "great rushes" of immigrants, coming
helter-skelter on to our east coast, are often accompanied or
followed very closely by outbursts of severe weather; and a sudden
increase of cold in winter will almost clear a whole district of its
birds; in fact, all birds are very susceptible to changes of weather,
and, if closely watched, will indicate by their movements the coming
change. On Jan. 12th, in this year, when in the Humber marshes, I
noticed Larks and Snow Buntings passing from N. to S. from 9 a.m. to
2 p.m., separate flocks for some hours, and after 11 p.m., when the
snow commenced, continuous.

Birds in the early autumn do not, it is evident, migrate for lack
of food, for the young of the _Limicolæ_ are on our coast at a time
when the supply of insect-food in high northern latitudes is the most
abundant; and our own insect-eating birds are often away long before
there is, or can be, any falling off in food. On the same grounds it
is not changes in the seasons which can induce young birds, having no
knowledge from experience, to return south in the heat of the Arctic
latter-summer; as to the _how_ and the _why_ of the whole matter,
we must be content for the present to say nothing, but continue to
collect facts.

In 1880 the main body of the migrants crossed between the 15th and
end of October, the greater number perhaps on the 17th of that month.




WEST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


Printed forms, letters, and remarks were forwarded to thirty-eight
stations on the west coast of Scotland and the Isles, being two more
than in 1879, _viz._, Bahama Lightship and Langness Lighthouse, both
in Isle of Man.[11]

[Footnote 11: Mr. Philip Kermode received the Isle of Man returns,
and forwarded them to me afterwards for incorporation with the
Scottish ones.]

We have received in all returned, filled-in schedules from twenty-six
stations, being two more than last year.

Only four stations have not sent in returns, which sent them in last
year,[12] but, to make up for this, we have gained six from stations
which sent us none last year,[13] besides adding one from one of the
new stations.[14]

[Footnote 12: Devaar; Pladda; Lamlash; Little Ross.]

[Footnote 13: Stornoway; Ushenish; Kyleakin; Lismore; Turnberry;
Douglas Head.]

[Footnote 14: Bahama Bank (L.V.).]

A marked improvement is apparent in these returns, and it is evident
that very general interest is being taken in the work. Altogether,
our west coast returns are quite satisfactory, and it gives us
much pleasure to think that the first year's reports have really
interested our obliging correspondents. We hope that the present
general report will succeed in enlisting the whole body in the
service. We can as yet only repeat, that we believe that interesting
and curious results will in time be arrived at; but we deprecate any
attempt at present to arrive at these, desiring first a firm basis
of facts to build upon, which can only be obtained by continued
attention and careful record, for a few years longer, of a large mass
of statistics.

The stations from which co-operation was asked are the following,
commencing with the most northerly--Cape Wrath. Those from which
returns have been received are marked with a *; those which sent
returns both last year and this have two **; those which sent none
last year but have done so this year have a † prefixed; those which
sent returns last year but none this year are printed in _italics_.
Stations added this year have the date, 1880, preceding them.


West Coast of Scotland.

Mainland.

                               Height of centre of
                                light above water.

  81. **Cape Wrath.                      400 ft.    John M'Gill.
  82. **Rhu Stoir.                       195        William Wither.

Outer Hebrides.

  83. **Butt of Lewis.                   140        George Edgar.
  84.  †Stornoway.                        56        John Grierson.
  85.  *Island Glass.                    130        William Innes.
  86. **Monach Island.           { Upper 150 }      James Youngclause.
                                 { Lower  62 }
  87.  †Ushenish.                        176        Peter Carrie.
  88.   Barra Head.                      683

Mainland, Skye, and Inner Hebrides.

   89.   Rona, Skye.                      222
   90.  †Kyleakin, Rosspire.               53        David M'Culloch.
   91. **Isle Ornsay, Skye.                58        James Loughten.
   92. **Ardnamurchan Point,              180        David Laidlaw.
           Argyleshire.
   93.   {Hynish Signal Tower, Tiree. }   150        William Crow.
   94.   {Skerryvore, off Tiree.      }
   95. **Dhuheartach, S.W. of Ross of
           Mull.                          145        James Ewing.
   96. **Sound of Mull, Mull.              55        William M'Lellan.
   97.   Corran Ferry, Loch Eil.           38
   98.  †Lismore Island, Oban.            103        Alexander Murray.
   99.  *_Fladda, Easdale._             42
  100. **Rhuvaal, Islay.                  147        David Spink.
  101.  *_M'Arthur's Head, Islay._     128
  102. **Skervuile, Jura.                  73        John Ewing.
  103. **Rhinns of Islay.                 150        Andrew Lyall.
  104. **Lochindaul, Islay.                50        William Maill.
  105.   Mull of Kintyre.                 297
  106.   Sanda, Kintyre Sound.            165
  107.   _Devaar, Kintyre._            120
  108.   _Pladda, Arran._              130
  109.   _Lamlash, Arran._              46
  110.  †Turnberry, Ayrshire.              96        Andrew Nisbet.
  111. **Corsewall, Wigtown.              112        Robert Laidlaw.
  112. **Loch Ryan, Wigtown.               46        Ralph Ewing.
  113. **Portpatrick, Wigtown.             37        James Beggs.
  114. **Mull of Galloway, Wigtown.       325        N. Morrison.
  115.   _Little Ross, Kirkcudbright._ 175
  116.  *Point of Ayre, Isle of Man.      106        James Blythe.
  117.  †Douglas Head, Isle of Man.       104        Alexander M'Donald.
  118.   Chickens Rock, Isle of Man.      122
  119.  *1880.--Bahama Bank, Isle of Man (L.V.)‡     -- Johns.
  120.   1880.--Langness Lighthouse, do.

‡ Light-vessels being only a few feet above the sea, I have not
indicated the exact elevation, which, however, is usually about 30
feet.


SPRING MIGRATION, 1880.[15]

[Footnote 15: In writing out the data of the spring migration, I take
the most southerly stations first, reversing the sequence of the
autumn records.]

SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES.

Strigidæ.--At Skerryvore, one Brown Owl appeared on 10th May, at 2.30
p.m., in showery weather.

Falconidæ.--At Douglas Head,[16] one "Black Hawk" (Sparrowhawk?) was
noted at 8 a.m., in clear weather, with light E.N.E. breeze.

[Footnote 16: It is noted on the schedule from this station that
the lighthouse, "being inland, little or any observations on the
migration of birds can be noted accurately."]

Hirundinidæ.--The earliest date on which Swallows are recorded from
any west coast stations is April 7th, and this at one of our most
northerly stations, _viz._, Butt of Lewis. This is followed by April
17th at Douglas Head, one of our most southern stations in the Isle
of Man; seen at 12 noon; wind light S.E. breeze, clear or showers;
these were not again observed. Again, on April 24th, their arrival
is recorded at Rhinns of Islay. Thereafter none are noted until
6th May, at Loch Ryan, in Wigtownshire, when a flight of fifty was
observed, followed by twenty and fifteen on the 8th and 11th: winds
from N.W. through N. to E. and fresh, clear to haze. At Skerryvore,
one was seen on 10th May, in calm, hazy and rainy weather. On 11th,
12th and 13th, eight flew about the Point of Ayre. On 24th, four
were seen _flying south_ past Ardnamurchan station. On 22nd, one at
Monach Island; winds from S.W. to N.W., fresh. The remaining records
are in June. On June 14th, at Ardnamurchan, two again seen flying
southwards; and on 22nd, at Skerryvore; calm, hazy weather. Possibly
these June records of birds flying south may belong to the autumn
migration. It thus appears that a spring _rush_ took place in the
earlier part of May--from the 6th to the 14th. About the same time,
_viz._, May 20th, a flock of "Martin Swallows," _Hirundo urbica_,
appeared at the Butt of Lewis during light W. wind, with haze; they
stopped about three hours and then flew off, going S.W.

_Note._--Swallows and Martins were first observed at Ballina, Co.
Wicklow, Ireland, by Mr. E. Warren, on April 19th.

Swift, _Cypselus_.--First noted at Ballina by Mr. Warren, on May 12th.

Wheatear, _Saxicola œnanthe_.--Records from three stations only in
spring, _viz._, Skervuile, Monach, and Butt of Lewis. Earliest date
at Skervuile (most southern of the three). May 1st, where one was
seen at lantern at midnight; wind light S. Next date is May 4th, at
Monach, when about twenty, mixed with Larks and Wagtails, were seen
and two killed between 8.30 p.m. and 3 a.m.; wind light from N. to W.
The latest and only other record dates May 20th, at Butt of Lewis,
where five were seen; wind light W., clear.

Wagtail, _Motacilla Yarrellii_.--Two stations, _viz._, at Kyleakin
and Butt of Lewis. At Kyleakin, April 1st, twenty-six rested at 4
p.m., wind E.S.E., haze; 2nd, twenty-four rested at 8 a.m., wind
S.E., haze. At Butt of Lewis, April 13th, a flock at 7 a.m., stopped
a few days and left flying south, light E. wind, clear; and a few
days later, "one lighter than the rest" left, going south. At
Kyleakin, April 17th, twelve were seen flying S.E. at 7 a.m., light
breeze, with fog; and on 18th, at 1 p.m., twelve more rested and then
flew off south, wind light S.W., and fog.

Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_.--I have but few records of the spring
migration, _viz._, from Lochindaul, Fladda, and Dhuheartach. The
earliest at Fladda, April 4th, when twenty-four were seen at 10 a.m.,
breeze fresh, with showers, and clear. At Dhuheartach, April 13th,
between midnight and 8 a.m., three birds rested; night foggy, and
wind light N. At Lochindaul, May 18th, some were seen, wind moderate,
and weather foggy.

Skylark, _Alauda arvensis_.--At Dhuheartach and Monach, April 13th,
ten at night, wind light N., cloudy, seven killed; and May 1st, one
at midnight, wind S., haze; and at these stations, on May 4th,
flock, mixed with Wheatears and Wagtails, from 8.30 p.m. till 3 a.m.,
wind light W. to N., haze and rain.

Cuckoo, _Cuculus canorus_.--The following are the stations where it
was noted as first seen or heard, commencing in the south:--At Point
of Ayre, May 1st, light airs and haze. At Lochindaul, May 16th, E.,
clear; the reporter adds, "but is earlier in Islay." At Rhinns of
Islay, April 21st, wind light W. At Skervuile, May 10th, first seen,
wind N., clear. At Stornoway, May 4th. At Kyleakin, May 5th. At Rhu
Stoir, June 15th, wind light N., haze.

_Note._--First noted at Ballina, Ireland, by Mr. Warren, on May 12th.

Oystercatcher, _Hæmatopus ostralegus_.--At Lochindaul, Dhuheartach,
and Island Ghlais. At Dhuheartach, April 14th and 17th, 8 and 10
a.m., ten and seventeen resting or feeding, wind light N.W., haze or
fog. At Lochindaul, May 20th and 21st, 10 a.m., resting, light wind,
fog. At Island Ghlais, June 30th, 6 p.m., two feeding, calm, and
heavy showers.

Curlew, _Numenius arquata_.--So far as a spring migration can be
separated by the data at command, the whole season has apparently
being occupied by Curlews in moving about, the results are as
follows:--Beginning on 16th, south, we find spring records at
Lochindaul, Rhuvaal, Dhuheartach, Monach, and Skerryvore. The first
note dates March 1st, at Rhuvaal; eight seen, S.W. gale and rain. The
second at Dhuheartach, April 13th, 4 p.m., when three were seen, wind
light, cloudy. Thereafter at Lochindaul, May 14th. At Skerryvore, May
23rd. At Monach, June 13th. At Lochindaul, June 14th. At Skerryvore,
June 23rd. Winds variable E., N.W. to S.W.

Whimbrel.--"May fowl" arrived on Monach, on their way north, upon
May 8th, when three were seen flying about, wind light N., clear. On
May 25th, several parties of from three or four to six seen flying
between Monach and Haskeir rocks, wind fresh S.W., clear. The note is
added, "Arrive in May, leave in July."

_Note._--Mr. R. Warren notes their first appearance at Ballina on May
1st.

Snipe.--At Dhuheartach, April 13th, three Snipe killed, strong N.
breeze, cloudy.

Corn Crake, _Crex pratensis_.--The Corn Crake was heard at Kyleakin
on June 11th, and at Stornoway on May 4th, clear and fine; and at
Lochindaul on May 18th, at night.

_Note._--At Ballina it was first noted by Mr. Warren on May 2nd.

Wild Goose.--At Rhu Stoir, May 12th, 10 a.m., twelve Wild Geese seen,
three males and three females; light N. airs, clear.

Ducks, _Anatidæ_.--At Rhuvaal, Island Ghlais, and Rhu Stoir. At
Rhuvaal, March 8th, great numbers daily seen, where, however, they
became scarcer between April 20th and 30th. At Rhu Stoir, June 18th,
10 a.m., six Eiders, three males and three females, wind light N.,
clear; and July 28th, 8.30 a.m., thirty "Wild Ducks," wind N.E., haze
and rain.

Terns.--Two evidently paired birds seen at Rhu Stoir on May 18th,
light to fresh variable winds. On May 26th, about 2 p.m., some
scores of Terns were seen at Monach during S.W. gale, and were the
first that arrived to breed there; and on June 14th, lots of nests
containing two to three eggs were seen. At Skervuile, May 10th, Terns
were first observed this spring, wind light E., and haze; and by
31st great numbers had passed; some were again seen on June 18th, in
similar weather. At Rhinns of Islay, May 12th, three seen at noon,
fresh E. breeze; and all during June, large numbers of "Tick Terns"
fishing in Lochindaul. At Stornoway, June 5th, they kept arriving at
all hours, and were the first to come to the breeding grounds.

_Note._--Mr. J. T. Garriock notes the spring arrival of Terns
at Lerwick, in Shetland, _from the north_, on May 22nd, in 'The
Zoologist' (_q. v._, 1880, p. 302); and, in a letter to me, he
substantiates his observation. Mr. Robert Warren notes the first
appearance of Sandwich Terns at Ballina, Ireland, on March 24th, and
of Common Terns on May 14th.




AUTUMN MIGRATION, 1880.


SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES.

Falconidæ.--Two Sparrowhawks appeared at Rhu Stoir, in attendance
upon flocks of Finches and Larks, on Oct. 20th, during light variable
breezes, with snow. Also at Skerryvore, a Hawk--probably of the same
species, or a Merlin--lived on the small birds on Oct. 14th and 15th;
whilst at Dhuheartach a Hawk makes a regular visit, to prey upon
the birds which rest on the rock. (See our first Report for 1879,
'Zool.,' May, 1880, p. 190.)

Swift.--At Ushenish, North Uist,[17] June 13th, 1 p.m., five Swifts
seen flying south, with S. wind, and haze.

[Footnote 17: Though this dates early, I cannot but assign it here,
and not to a spring movement.]

_Note._--Mr. R. Service notes the species as unusually abundant in
1880. He observed a large flock of Swifts on Aug. 4th, proceeding in
a southerly direction. The most of the local birds, however, still
remained on the 11th.

Swallows, _Hirundinidæ_.--Swallows were no longer seen after July
16th, at the Point of Ayre, Isle of Man, on which day twenty young
were noticed, until again on Aug. 15th, when eight were seen flying
about. At Turnberry, from thirty to forty were seen during the
daytime on Aug. 26th, in light E. airs; and again fifty to sixty on
Aug. 31st, and forty to fifty on Sept. 2nd. Numbers were also seen at
Mull of Galloway and at Loch Ryan. Swallows collected on Oct. 4th and
flew away S.W., whilst at Portpatrick great numbers were seen resting
and then flying off S. on Oct. 15th. This S.W. corner of Scotland
appears to be a point of departure of the species, and of several
others; and I would invite special attention at stations all along
the Wigton coast-line.[18] All the above observations on the autumn
movements of Swallows were made during the daytime, and in light E.
to N.E. winds. A rush appears to have taken place end of August and
beginning of September, and a later one as late as the middle of
October.

[Footnote 18: See R. Gray and Thos. Anderson's 'Birds of Ayrshire and
Wigtonshire,' p. 5.]

_Note._--In 1879 the most northerly station was Ardnamurchan, and the
appearance of Swallows much more general. The earliest record in 1879
of autumn migration was on July 29th, and the latest Sept. 25th, as
against this year, July 16th and Oct. 15th. Careful attention to the
collecting of migrants at these Wigton headlands would surely result
in some interesting data. Mr. Robert Service writes me that all the
headlands, also along the Stewartry coast-line, are gathering-places
for the land-birds before proceeding southward. At daybreak, in
September or October, Mr. Service has often watched departing flights
of birds going off southward or seaward, over the Solway Firth. Large
congregations of Swallows were observed by me at Kinross on telegraph
wires on Aug. 3rd, and I was told that they congregate in the same
place every autumn before leaving. There must have been many hundreds.

The following really belongs to the East Coast Report, and comes in
under Mr. Hardy's notes from Berwickshire and the Borders:--Mr. Hardy
has abundant evidence of the departure of Swallows in the border
counties. He writes to me as follows:--"Old Cambus, Oct. 28th.--On
Sept. 25th and 26th Swallows were here, and a pair of Martins were
then on the coast, seven having been seen on the 26th. The main party
assembled on the coast on the 21st and 22nd, and were not again
visible, excepting this small party. I went down to the cave where
the nests were, and evidently they were feeding young birds there. On
the 30th they had not left a steading about a mile above Gilsland.
They were present on Oct. 2nd and 3rd near Rosely Castle, eight miles
south of Carlisle. On the 4th they were assembling on the roof of the
Mansion House of Marchmont, Berwickshire, in great numbers, during
snow and sleet. The 'Kelso Chronicle' of Oct. 15th says, 'Swallows
were absent three weeks from Kelso, but again, in Kelso and the
country round, their presence that week had been conspicuous. They
had assembled in flocks.' The same paper of Oct. 22nd states that,
'On Oct. 17th a good many Swallows were flying about Jedburgh.' At
Brampton, Cumberland, they were seen on Oct. 16th, 'circling round
the church for several days previous.' On Sept. 22nd, Swallows still
at Horsley, in the valley of the Eye, and a Martin still had young in
a nest in the corner of a window."

Besides the above, it is worth while to take notice of an account
of migration that appeared in an early volume of the 'Proceedings
of the Zoological Society,' relating to the South-west district of
Scotland:--"An extract of a letter from Capt. Fayrer, C.M.Z.S., was
read. It was dated on board H. M.'s Packet 'Arrow,' Port Patrick,
Oct. 23rd, 1831, and referred to the migration of certain birds from
that neighbourhood. That of the Larks commenced about Oct. 12th.
'Their numbers,' says Capt. Fayrer, 'are beyond anything I would
venture to state, but millions They start at daylight, steer directly
across to the Capelona Islands, off Belfast Loch, and seem to prefer
the wind directly against them. Very large flocks of Starlings have
arrived within the last few days; they start before sunrise, but
steer to the southward. The Lapwings have also arrived, but these
birds do not take their flight till day has set well in; they appear
to go directly across. I see all these birds at each end of their
passage (twenty-one miles), and few, I think, perish." (P.Z.S., 1831,
p. 145.)

Wren.--Returns from Skerryvore, Dhuheartach, Skervuile, and
Turnberry. The earliest date available was at Dhuheartach, Aug.
18th, when one was seen flying S. at noon, during light S.W. wind
and haze. None are again reported until Oct. 1st, when "Wrens" were
seen mixed with Larks and Thrushes; winds variable, light, and haze.
Then at Skerryvore, Oct. 9th, one flying about at 11 a.m., light N.E.
breeze, clear; and at Turnberry, Oct. 12th, one struck the lantern at
midnight, wind light N.E. airs. In the autumn migration of 1879 (_q.
v._, _loc. cit._) records came from Monach Island and Dhuheartach.
Earliest Aug. 17th, latest Dec. 9th.

Goldcrest.--At Turnberry, Sept. 24th, 3 a.m., one struck, but was not
killed, wind light S., and haze; and at Corsewall, Sept. 27th till
30th, there appears to have been a migration. On 27th, two were seen
to strike the lantern at 2 a.m., in fresh south breeze and haze; on
28th, two also struck in clear weather, light S. breeze; and on 30th,
eight remained around the lights from 8 p.m. till daylight, wind
light S.E., and haze. From the Mull of Galloway, the negative note
is given, "None seen this year." In 1879, numbers were reported (see
Report, 1879) at Mull of Galloway on July 18th--only date.

_Note._--Mr. E. Warren, _in lit._, notes the unusual scarcity of
Golden-crested Wrens at Ballina at the end of July, 1880.

Robin, _Erithaca rubecula_.--The most northern station where it is
noted is Cape Wrath, where one bird arrived upon Oct. 20th, and
remained until Jan. 11th (when the schedule was returned), or later.
It came at 11.30 a.m., with an E. wind and snow. My correspondent
adds, "It is much thought of." I have ten records from eight
stations, _viz._, Cape Wrath, Stornoway, Kyleakin (2), Isle Ornsay,
Dhuheartach, Rhuvaal, Lismore, and Turnberry. These date from Aug.
18th (Dhuheartach) and Sept. 4th (Kyleakin) to Dec. 31st (Stornoway),
where one was observed for several days previous to that date. Other
dates are, Sept. 8th, (Isle Ornsay), 24th (Turnberry), Oct. 20th
(Cape Wrath, as above), Nov. 7th (Kyleakin and Lismore), Dec. 15th
(Lismore), Dec. 27th (Rhuvaal). All the observations were made during
the daytime, except at Lismore and Turnberry. In August the wind at
Dhuheartach was light S.W. on 18th, with haze; the one Robin seen
flew off S. after resting. At Kyleakin, Sept. 4th, four birds seen
were flying S.W., wind light W., clear. At Turnberry, Sept. 24th,
one struck at 3 a.m., in light S. breeze, and haze. At Isle Ornsay,
one seen. At Cape Wrath, in October. At Kyleakin, Nov. 7th, three,
wind S.E., clear; and numbers seen at Lismore mingling with Starlings
and Larks all night, wind strong S.W., haze and rain. At Rhuvaal,
Dec. 27th, after stormy weather, two flew about and stayed for a few
days; and at Stornoway, Dec. 31st and a few days previously, one
was seen. On 15th, numbers were round the lights at Lismore, along
with Thrushes, Blackbirds, Grey and Green Linnets, in large flocks,
wind strong N.E., and snow. In 1879, Robins were not reported from
stations further north than Kyleakin.

Wheatear, _Saxicola ænanthe_.--I have eight or nine records from
three stations on the west coast in autumn, _viz._, Butt of Lewis
and Dhuheartach. The earliest date is Aug. 13th, when one was seen
at Dhuheartach between 7 and 8 p.m., arriving with light N. wind,
and remaining; and about one hundred, mostly young birds, left the
neighbourhood of the Butt of Lewis, where--about a mile from the
lighthouse--they had been collecting for some days before. Up to
Aug. 17th and 18th, a few--seven on 17th and six on 18th--were seen
at Dhuheartach about 8 a.m., wind light and haze, where they rested
and flew off south. On Aug. 19th, one was killed on the lantern
of Douglas Head lighthouse at 11 p.m., wind E.N.E., and haze. At
Dhuheartach, Sept. 10th, thirty rested, light S. wind, and haze;
and between Sept. 16th and Oct. 1st, large numbers were seen at the
lantern of the Butt of Lewis lighthouse, and many were caught and
released. Skerryvore was the most northerly station in 1879. Aug.
15th was the earliest record in 1879, and the latest on Sept. 28th.

_Note._--Late occurrences of the Wheatear are noted by Mr. Hardy in
Berwickshire. On Sept. 17th they were seen at the shore and not again
afterwards, but a few were present at Berwick, behind the pier,
on Oct. 12th. This is the latest date I have on the east coast of
Scotland. I place the note here--under the west coast report--for
special comparison with the following:--Wheatear.--An unusually
late stay of this species is recorded by Mr. Service in Wigtonshire
(_vide_ 'Zoologist,' Feb. 1881, pp. 54, 55). Since the note appeared
in 'The Zoologist,' I have had some more correspondence regarding
these late Wheatears--7th December. Mr. Bruce is strongly of my
opinion, that these birds _were really migrating_ when they flew
away northwards, as they were seen still carrying on when fully a
mile away. Before this they had remained for two or three days with
Bullfinches. About six weeks afterwards "these same Bullfinches"
took a similar route and disappeared; they were seen departing. I am
inclined to agree with my friend and fellow-worker, Mr. Cordeaux,
that these Wheatears probably belonged to the larger race, which have
more arboreal habits than our own. If this is so, the observation
made by Mr. Bruce still further bears out the probability of their
foreign origin. As regards the more arboreal habits of the larger
race, I have explained elsewhere ('Ibis,' 1876, p. 310) that arboreal
habits of such species as Gulls, Curlews, Snipe, Snow Buntings, &c.,
in North-east Russia, are probably brought about by the flooded
conditions of the country there, at the time of the arrival in
spring of these migrants. The habit no doubt grows and even becomes
hereditary, and is carried into other countries and other climes in
autumn. Larger races usually indicate more northern extension, and,
in my opinion, abnormal arboreal habits of certain species indicate
that they are natives of a land subject to constantly recurring
floods. For these reasons I am still inclined to adhere to my opinion
that these Wigtonshire Wheatears, at the late date of Dec. 9th, 1880,
were resting during their regular migration, and departed again
upon an extension of that same migration. They were, in my belief,
strangers, and not bred in the country.

Hedgesparrow.--See under Linnet.

Wagtail.--At Dhuheartach, a rush of Wagtails was observed upon Aug.
17th, 18th, 24th, and 26th, wind light and from S.W. on 17th and
18th, when twelve were seen each day flying in a south-easterly
direction--to E.S.E. and S.E. on 24th--when two or three rested upon
the rock. We had no records of this in 1879.

Thrushes, Blackbirds, and Ring Ouzels.--Numerous returns from eleven
stations, _viz._, Rhu Stoir, Butt of Lewis, Stornoway, Monach,
Kyleakin, Rhuvaal, Lochindaul, Corsewall, Point of Ayre, Douglas
Head, and Bahama L.V. Earliest date July 19th, at Point of Ayre, when
about 160 young Thrushes (_Turdus musicus_) were seen to go off at
9 a.m., flying S. Latest dates Jan. 8th, 9th and 10th, 1881, when
large flocks of Blackbirds, Thrushes and Snow Buntings flew about all
day; and all left on the 10th when the haze and fog cleared away;
fresh E. breeze during this time. Between these dates, a migration
appears to have taken place on Sept. 21st to 30th, shown, however, by
records from only one station, _viz._, Stornoway. There, a good many
Blackbirds and Thrushes arrived on Sept. 21st and left on 30th. These
were accompanied also by Stormcocks (_Turdus pilaris_, or Fieldfare);
weather and wind not noted; but see notes from Mid-Atlantic, _infra_.
On 29th also, a number of Thrushes seen hovering round the lights at
Douglas Head, along with Starlings and Blackbirds, in fog and haze.
A desultory migration appears to have been carried on throughout
October; I have the following records:--At Rhu Stoir, Oct. 1st,
forty, besides Linnets, stayed four days (this comes also under the
rush at end of September), wind variable, light breezes. At Bahama
L.V., Oct. 8th, three were killed at 10.20 p.m., wind light E.N.E.
breeze, and cloudy. At Butt of Lewis, in the north, Oct. 15th, a good
many arrived and stayed till Jan. 15th, 1881, or later. At Kyleakin,
Oct. 20th, two were seen flying south, with strong S.E. wind; and a
few at Lochindaul. At Corsewall, one seen on 7th and one on 8th, one
killed; strong N.E. wind and haze. In November, the earliest dates
occur at the most southern stations; thus at Point of Ayre, Nov. 2nd
and 3rd, about three hundred Blackbirds and Thrushes, mixed with
Starlings, kept about the locality till 4 a.m. on the 3rd; wind S. to
S.E., very foggy. The direction of flight on departure was not noted,
but they were seen to pass off about 7.30 a.m. Also at the Bahama
L.V., on the 3rd, five were killed and others fell overboard. At
Corsewall, on the same dates, one and two were seen, wind fresh E.,
and haze. At Kyleakin, Nov. 4th, seven Blackbirds seen flying south
at 9 a.m., wind S.E., and sleet; again on 11th, two seen flying S.,
wind E., haze. At Monach, Nov. 16th, one in the garden, wind S. to
N.N.E., strong, with sleet and snow. In December, at Monach, a few
Blackbirds were seen. Thus on Dec. 3rd, one male seen resting on the
lantern at 10 p.m., wind strong W., haze. Another female on Dec. 4th,
2 p.m., flying about the garden, wind fresh S.S.W., haze and rain;
and two Blackbirds, accompanied by Starlings, at 1 p.m., wind fresh
S., clear in the garden and on the shore. As already noted, a still
later flight was noted in January, 1881, at Point of Ayre, Isle of
Man.

_Note._--Thrushes, amongst other birds (_vide_ Robins, Linnets,
Snipe, Wagtails, &c.), were recognised by Capt. Roy in Mid-Atlantic,
400 miles on this side of Newfoundland. To Mr. Robt. Gray I am
indebted for some interesting and useful notes regarding the
occurrences of birds in Mid-Atlantic:--"The ship 'Rutland,'
of Greenock, Capt. Roy. When about 400 miles on this side of
Newfoundland, during continued heavy gales from the east, Capt. Roy
observed numbers of birds taking refuge on the 20th September. He had
had head-winds all the way home to England, and birds more or less
numerous round the ship till the 25th October. When he was 400-500
miles from Ireland, a violent storm arose and blew prodigious flocks
of birds before it. The deck and rigging were covered. Many died, and
many were killed and used as food. The survivors, after staying a few
days, were carried off by the force of the wind. Capt. Roy observed
one Robin, lots of Linnets, Snipe, Thrushes, Wagtails, &c. Heavy
rains accompanied the storm." Mr. Gray continues, "My brother-in-law,
on his way to Boston in one of the Cunard steamers, saw a Jackdaw and
a Starling come on board on Oct. 23rd, during a gale from the east,
when 550 miles from the Irish coast, easterly winds having prevailed
for several days. On Oct. 24th, 850 miles from land, one Starling
perched for a few minutes. A small bird like a Linnet hovered about
the rigging, but did not perch. One Water Rail was captured and
detained ten days, 1200 miles from land, and two Sandpipers. Writing
again on Dec. 21st, he tells me that on the outward passage, lat. 42°
N., long. 54° W., he had in view at one time from five to six hundred
Gulls, various species--an extraordinary number to be so far from
land. When about 1080 miles from Ireland, going out, two _Crossbills_
flew on board. Both were captured."

Thomas Anderson (son of Thomas Anderson, joint author with Mr. Robert
Gray of 'The Birds of Ayrshire and Wigtownshire') and Mr. Gray inform
me, a good observer, and who has for many years kept a bird-log, at
Mr. Robert Gray's request. Being chief-engineer on board a Cunard
liner, he has crossed the Atlantic some four hundred times, during
most or all of which time he has kept careful notes. It is hoped that
he or Mr. Gray will give us the benefit of these notes before long,
as they cannot fail to be of great interest and use to students of
migration.

Mr. T. E. Bruce, of Slogarrie, observed some Missel Thrushes flying
south on March 4th, 1881, and on the same day Snow Buntings. Great
storm of snow on March 4th and 5th, from N.E.; this no doubt a local
and temporary migration caused by the severe weather. The Missel
Thrushes having previously arrived on spring migration, compelled to
return again.

Corvidæ.--The returns are from Monach, Sound of Mull, Rhinns of
Islay, Portpatrick, and Bahama (L.V.) Earliest at Portpatrick, Aug.
16th, flocks flying round between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m., wind light
E., and clear (probably only a local movement). Latest at Monach,
Dec. 29th, when about a dozen were seen at noon flying south over
the island. At Sound of Mull, in October, about two hundred "Daws"
are reported flying N.E. on the 9th, wind light E. and clear; and at
Rhinns of Islay, on the 10th, flocks of Black Crows (Rooks ?) seen
flying W., wind light, clear. At Bahama L.V., on 24th, one flying E.
at 7.25 a.m., wind N.W., and showery. But in November there appears
to have been a rush; also on Nov. 5th, ten "Crows" seen at Bahama
L.V. flying W.N.W. at 8 a.m., wind moderate N.W. by N. (the strength
registered is 4); and at the same station, on the 25th, about two
hundred and fifty "Crows" were seen flying from E. to W., with a
W.S.W. wind, strength 6, and weather gloomy. In my return from Monach
I find that six "small black Crows," which may have been either Books
or Jackdaws, were seen passing over the island, flying north-west or
north, in the direction of the Lews, driven along by a strong S.S.E.
gale upon Nov. 20th.

_Note._--In 52° 50′ north lat. and 22° 21′ west long., being 475
miles off the Irish coast, after six weeks' easterly gale and winds,
wind E.S.E. for ten hours previous, two Books flew to the barque
'East.' One fell exhausted on deck, and the other into the sea.
The former was shown to me by the Captain--Capt. Younoun--on board
the 'East' at Granton. The above, as related to me, was upon Nov.
19th; and it may be interesting in connection with this to read the
notes supplied by Mr. R. Gray, as given under Thrush. Of a later
observation at Monach, on Dec. 29th, I have already spoken.

Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_.--I have received many returns of this
species, as is usually the case in autumn. Commencing at our most
northerly stations, I have returns from Cape Wrath, Rhu Stoir,
Stornoway, Island Ghlais (or Glas), Monach, Kyleakin, Fladda, Rhinns
of Islay, Lochindaul, Corsewall, Point of Ayre, Douglas Head, and
Bahama (L.V.) The earliest dates are August; arrive and remain
all the season afterwards at Lochindaul; but at Rhinns of Islay,
adjoining, arrive in September and remain; resident thereafter.
At Corsewall, Aug. 4th, a flock flying south, fresh S. wind. At
Kyleakin, Sept. 12th, three, moderate S. wind, and haze. At Cape
Wrath, Sept. 14th, twenty young, flying from E. to W. (see remarks on
occurrences in Mid-Atlantic, under Thrushes, antea, p. 80); on 17th,
a large flock at 10 p.m., wind strong S., with haze and rain; stayed
a few days and then left. At Corsewall, Sept. 28th, a flock flying
S., strong breeze, clear. Sept. 29th and 30th, a number seen hovering
round the lights of Douglas Head Lighthouse at midnight, with
Thrushes and Blackbirds, and none seen after daylight came in. At
Kyleakin, Nov. 3rd and 5th, forty adult and young rested, wind light
N. to light S., clear, and sleet. Also on Nov. 2nd and 3rd, whilst
numbers were striking all night till dawn at Corsewall, a large
number were flying round Point of Ayre lights, mixed with Thrushes
and Blackbirds, and thirty-six were killed; and on same date, one was
killed at lantern of Douglas Head: and six killed and fell overboard
at Bahama L.V., out of a large flock of mixed Thrushes and Starlings.
At Monach, Nov. 6th, one adult rested, wind light N.W., drizzle. At
Monach, Nov. 17th, twenty-four young, N.N.E. gale, sleet and snow;
left on 18th. At Stornoway, Dec. 19th and 20th, large flocks, wind
E., sleet and rain. At Monach, Dec. 27th, a flock of young birds,
along with a large flock of Larks, flying about the garden and shores
at 1 p.m., wind S., fresh and clear; and again on Jan. 14th, 1881, a
great many flocks, mixed old and young, at 10 a.m., flying to and fro
between the island and North Uist, apparently being local movements
caused by heavy snow in Uist. In 1879, the most northerly record
comes from Ardnamurchan, whereas this year, as is usually the case,
they are much more general. The earliest date in 1879 was Aug. 14th,
at Loch Ryan and M'Arthur's Head, whilst this year it was the 4th,
at Corsewall. The latest in 1879 was Dec. 18th, at Skervuile. This
year, in December, at Stornoway.

Finches, _Fringillidæ_.--At Rhu Stoir, Sept. 17th, large flocks
at 10 p.m., strong S. wind, haze and rain; stayed a few days with
Starlings and then left. Crossbills (_vide_ Mr. Anderson's notes on
Mid-Atlantic, antea, p. 80). Mr. Robt. Gray afterwards informed me
that the two Crossbills captured are of the American species (_Loxia
leucoptera_), judging from Mr. Anderson's description. The same
species was captured by the late Dr. Dewar on board ship (Royal Phyl.
Soc, and 'Birds of West of Scotland'); and at same locality Finches
were seen on Oct. 20th, light variable winds, and snow. Only returns
in 1879 were from Dhuheartach on Aug. 24th, and Oct. 4th and 8th.

Tree Sparrow.--On Lismore, Nov. 15th, a small flock observed, strong
N. wind, clear.

Chaffinch.--Only one record on west coast is given, _viz._, at Bahama
L.V., Oct. 11th, when one is recorded flying N.W. at 8 a.m., wind
E.N.E., and haze.

Linnets.--Returns from Skerryvore, Lismore, and Point of Ayre.
Earliest date Sept. 12th, when a rush appears to have taken place
past Point of Ayre between that date and Sept. 29th; principally,
however, on Sept. 12th and 20th, when young birds to the number of
fifty or sixty--on the 20th mixed with Hedgesparrows--were seen
flying W. on both days about 8 a.m., wind light W., clear. They
appeared plentiful also on the 28th, but a few only seen on 29th.
Again in same locality there appeared to be a rush on Oct. 18th
and 24th, when twenty and one hundred Greenfinches were seen, in
light and fresh W. wind; and at Skerryvore, Oct. 14th, twelve "Grey
Linnets" flew about the rock, wind light E., with haze. On Nov. 13th,
a small flock frequented Lismore during the day, wind strong S.W. to
W., and rain; and at the same station, Dec. 15th, both Grey and Green
Linnets, mixed with Robins, Larks, Thrushes, and Blackbirds, flew
about; wind strong N.E., and snow. In 1879, Sept. 9th is the only
date given at Rhuvaal and Lamlash.

Snow Bunting, _Emberiza nivalis_.--Records have been kept at Rhu
Stoir in the north, and southward at Monach, Dhuheartach, Corsewall,
and Point of Ayre. The earliest occurrence was at Dhuheartach on
Sept. 19th, when one bird was seen; wind fresh W. From Oct. 1st to
8th, at Rhu Stoir, about forty arrived and stayed till the latter
date; wind on day of arrival N.W. gale with sleet. On Oct. 1st, at
Monach also, they were first seen, one at 10 a.m.; wind fresh S.S.W.
and cloudy. At Point of Ayre from fifty to sixty were seen at 7.30
a.m., mixed with Thrushes and Blackbirds, fresh S.E. wind, clear,
on Nov. 2nd and 3rd. On Nov. 6th, at Monach, one at 10 p.m., N.W.
wind and drizzle of rain. On Nov. 16th a few seen at 2 p.m. during
a S. to N.N.E. gale, and the latest record is at Corsewall, on Jan.
5th, 1881, when one was seen and struck the lantern at 3.30 a.m.,
light N.E. wind, haze. In 1879 most northerly station, Monach Island.
Earliest date same as this year (1879, Monach; 1880, Dhuheartach).
Latest date in 1879, Dec. 10th (Corsewall), against Jan. 5th, 1881
(Corsewall), in 1880.

_Note._--The unusually large and sudden immigration of Snow Buntings
into Great Britain attracted general attention. From the middle of
November onward they were extremely abundant, and they ushered in the
severe winter and low temperatures of January, 1881.

Sky Lark, _Alauda arvensis_.--A good many returns from the following
stations:--Rhu Stoir, Kyleakin, Dhuheartach, Skervuile, Rhinns of
Islay, Turnberry, Corsewall, and Bahama L.V. The earliest, Sept.
30th, at Corsewall, at 9 p.m., when two were seen, which remained
till dawn on the lantern along with Golden-crested Wrens. The latest
at Turnberry on Jan. 4th, 1881, when one struck at 8 p.m., light
N.E. wind with haze. In October, on the 1st, at Skervuile, some were
seen mixed with Thrushes and Wrens; winds variable and light, with
haze. On the 3rd, at Turnberry, two struck, and one killed between
10 and 11 p.m., wind light E. and clear. On 12th, at Bahama L.V. a
flock seen flying W. at 9.20 a.m., wind light N.E., with haze. On
13th twenty seen at Dhuheartach at 1 a.m., wind light N., cloudy. On
Dec. 27th a large flock was seen flying about the garden and shores
at Monach along with young Starlings and two Blackbirds, at 1 p.m.,
wind S., fresh breeze, clear. In 1879 the most northerly station was
Dhuheartach. Earliest date in 1879, Sept. 19th; latest Dec. 6th; but
it must be remembered in this and all such comparisons that in 1879
our returns' were sent in sooner than in 1880.

_Note._--Local migrations of large extent, brought on by heavy falls
of snow and consequent scarcity of food, have been frequently noted
this season. When crossing the Firth of Forth on the 15th December I
saw many large flocks of Larks, both in the morning and afternoon,
flying steadily from N.N.W. to S.S.E. or N.W. to S.E. Many Larks
were afterwards seen feeding near Leith, and notice of the fact sent
to the papers by another witness. The line of flight, as I have
said, was from N. of West to S. of East. I note the fact as having
significance, even in a local migration, at this locality.

Rock Pigeon.--July 10th, sixteen Rock Pigeons at Island Ghlais,
flying S., 8 p.m., light N., haze and showers, refers probably to a
local migration. At Skerryvore two "wild pigeons" (Rock Doves?) seen
during calm hazy weather on June 24th.

Lapwing, _Vanellus cristatus_.--At Rhuvaal, Lochindaul, and
Portpatrick. Aug. 4th, at Lochindaul, large flocks seen all through
the month after this date: resident. Sept. 1st, two killed at
Rhuvaal, 11 p.m., strong S., haze. Sept. 9th, flocks flying S. at 9
a.m. at Portpatrick; wind S.E., hazy. Sept. 15th, Lochindaul, flocks
all day; strong N. wind, clear. One at Monach on Dec. 27th, wind S.,
flying S. More northerly in 1879, _viz._, Rhu Stoir and southwards.
Earliest date Aug. 20th; latest Dec. 11th.

_Note._--In Ireland Lapwings began to assemble on the shores by July
22nd, as observed by Mr. Warren.

Golden Plover, _Charadrius pluvialis_.--Only two records this year
from Island Ghlais and Point of Ayre: Dec. 3rd, twenty to thirty at
9 a.m. flying S.W., light airs, showers, at the former; Jan. 12th,
1881, at the latter, a flock flying E., wind strong E., clear. Two or
three flocks were seen upon Monach on Dec. 27th, at 1 p.m., flying
along to shore, wind S., fresh breeze. A considerable movement
appears to have been observed at Monach on this date. In 1879 three
stations, most northerly being Skerryvore. Earliest date July 27th,
at Portpatrick; latest on Oct. 18th, at Skerryvore.

Ringed Plover.--On Aug. 13th twelve "Dotterels" arrived upon
Dhuheartach. These remain on the rock all winter, unless driven off
by severe weather.

Heron.--Two Herons seen at 2 p.m. at Rhu Stoir, N.W. gale, snow
showers. At Monach four Herons rested on the shore on Oct. 28th,
about 2 o'clock, wind strong N.E., with snow showers; they had left
by next day. Common and of daily occurrence at Kyleakin.

Curlew, _Numenius arquatus_.--Of this species we have many records,
and it does not seem easy to distinguish between migration data and
residence. However, I give the leading points for further comparison.
They occurred, or are recorded, at Cape Wrath, and thence south at
Island Ghlais, Monach, Kyleakin, Skerryvore, Dhuheartach, Rhuvaal,
Skervuile, Lochindaul, Portpatrick. Point of Ayre, and Bahama L.V.
They seemed to fly in all directions, indicating to a great extent
only local migration. From April and May, on through June and July,
and all the autumn months they occur rather distinctly as resident,
or as passing flocks, and it seems almost impossible to separate the
movements in the end of summer which should be assigned as part of
the spring migration from those in the beginning of autumn which more
rightly belong to the autumnal migration. As will be seen, however,
I have attempted to do so, assigning all June records to the former
and July records to the latter. The earliest record, then, in autumn
stands as July 15th, when forty were seen flying W. at 4.20 p.m. at
Island Ghlais, wind light N., clear. The latest recorded are on Dec.
25th, 26th and 27th at Rhu Stoir, flying south; winds N. or light and
variable with showers. The general courses pursued were southerly
or from N.W. to S.E., or from N.E. to S.W., some flying direct W.,
however, and others direct S.; but at Portpatrick, on Aug. 19th and
23rd, flocks were seen flying north and also south, indicating a
local migration. On Aug. 19th the wind was light S., haze, and on
23rd light E., clear. Numbers passed Dhuheartach between Aug. 12th
and 17th, all going in southerly directions, from S. to S.W. and
S.E. On Monach they were unusually abundant this year all September,
and more than a dozen were shot. "Bushes," so far as such data are
of value, appear to have taken place in August, 12th to 17th, or
even later,--say to 23rd,--and locally, at Lochindaul, on Aug. 4th
and 5th, and in September, as 10th and 25th, at Dhuheartach, and
"unusually abundant all September on Monach." In November, on the
3rd, at Bahama L.V., Curlews were flying round the vessel all night.
On Aug. 15th four seen circling round Dhuheartach in calm, clear
weather, and on the 18th two seen flying south in light W. wind and
haze. On Nov. 2nd, at Douglas Head, one was killed on lantern at
10.30 p.m., wing strong S.E. and haze. On Nov. 6th one "Sandpiper"
was killed at lantern at Island Ghlais in a fresh W. breeze. In
1879 most northerly station was Island Ghlais; this year much more
general. Earliest date in 1879, Aug. 3rd; latest Nov. 20th.

Snipe.--I have returns only from three stations, Island Ghlais,
Kyleakin and Douglas Head. The earliest at Kyleakin, Oct. 11th, when
two appeared in light E. wind and rain; at the same station, Nov.
16th, one was killed on lantern at 2 a.m., in light S. wind and haze.
At Douglas Head, Nov. 18th, one killed at midnight in snow, N.E.
breeze. At Island Ghlais, Nov. 27th, one was killed during a W. gale
and haze and rain.

Woodcock, _Scolopax rusticola_.--Commencing in the north we have
records of occasional birds at Cape Wrath, Rhu Stoir, Island Ghlais,
Kyleakin, Ardnamurchan, Lismore, and Point of Ayre. The earliest
occurrence is noted at Island Ghlais, Sept. 23rd, seen half a mile
from lighthouse. Then we have occurrence at Point of Ayre, where
one was killed at the lantern on nights of Nov. 2nd and 3rd, at 7
o'clock, light S.E. wind, very foggy. At Lismore, Nov. 20th, one
seen at 11 a.m., light N.W. wind, clear. The rush appeared most
conspicuous from Dec. 10th, when one was killed at Ardnamurchan, at
5.30 a.m., in strong W. wind, with thick rain; at Kyleakin, Dec.
11th, when two were seen at 2.30 p.m., moderate N.E. wind, snow lying
on the ground; and at Rhu Stoir, Dec. 25th, 26th and 27th; on 25th,
three, flying south, light N. wind, snow; 26th, one, variable, and
light showers of snow; 27th, two, light, variable and clear; lastly,
at Rhu Stoir, Jan. 12th, two, light S.E. wind, clear.

_Note._--Northernmost Station, Island Ghlais, 1879. Earliest record,
Oct. 11th (Rhinns of Islay), 1879; latest record, Dec. 12th, 1879. So
long ago as the date of the "Lays of the Deer Forest," 1848, numbers
of Woodcock are recorded as settling about the lamps of the northern
lighthouses, and evidence is given from Cape Wrath (_loc. cit._,
'Notes,' vol. ii., p. 262).

Wild Goose.--At Portpatrick, Aug. 6th, one was seen flying S.E., in
light E. breeze; at the same station, Jan. 13th, ten were observed
flying S., with a strong N. breeze. At Point of Ayre, Jan. 11th,
about twenty were seen flying S., with light N.E. breeze. At Monach,
Nov. 30th, eight were seen at 8 p.m., flying westward, and settled
on some rocks off the island, wind S.E., fresh, rain; and Jan. 9th,
1881, fifteen at 9 a.m. flying northwards, wind S., light, clear.
At Douglas Head, Dec. 17th, eight Geese were seen flying from E. to
W. at 12 a.m., calm, clear. At Butt of Lewis, Jan. 6th, six Wild
Geese at 9 a.m., light S.W. wind, clear; came to the village about
a mile off, stopped two days; left, going S. At Island Ghlais, Jan.
4th, fifty Wild Geese flying S., 1 p.m.; wind N., fresh, clear. At
Rhuvaal, Dec. 12th, six dozen seen, after stormy weather, in light
S.W. breeze.

_Note._--On Jan. 29th, 1880, four dozen, old and young, resident on
Islay, were by Feb. 15th, 1880, reduced to about two dozen. It is
recorded in the Wernerian Societies Memoirs, in a report from the
light-keeper at Lismore lighthouse (which report was not published in
full), that most birds of a flock of Brent Geese were killed against
the building, and that one bird passed through quarter-inch glass
"like a shot" (Mem. Wern. Soc, read Jan. 24th, 1835).

Swan, _Cygnus_.--At Rhu Stoir, Dec. 25th, 2 p.m., flying S.E., light
N. wind, snow storm. (At Loch Inver, Jan. 1st, 1881, two seen at a
loch there.) At Butt of Lewis, Jan. 16th, two, stayed four days at
a village four miles off and left on 20th or 21st, flying S.; wind
N.E., sleet.

Ducks, _Anatidæ_.--At Monach, Skerryvore and Dhuheartach. At
Dhuheartach, Oct. 12th, nineteen Eiders--sixteen males and three
females, noon, fresh N. wind, clear; engaged in fishing. At Monach,
Oct. 27th, two flocks of Eiders, male and female, 3 p.m., wind N.,
cloudy; "first arrival here from breeding-grounds." At Dhuheartach,
Oct. 28th, forty fishing round, light N.E. wind; Oct. 29th, the same
flock. These remain all the season, usually arriving about Oct. 12th,
but they do not land here; later in arrival this year.

Great Northern Diver.--At Monach, May 25th, two--male and
female--Great Northern Divers seen, wind S.W., fresh, clear. These
birds are seen at intervals all through the year, three being the
largest number Mr. Youngclause has seen at one time; he has shot
three during the last five years.

Red-throated Diver.--At Monach, May 22nd, twelve were seen feeding in
pairs along the shore; wind N.W., fresh, showers.

Rock Birds, _Natatores_.--Razorbills, Guillemots, Puffins. In
speaking of these I believe the simplest way will be to take the
spring and autumn migration together, and I here simply write down
the results as they appear in the schedules. Cape Wrath, April 20th,
about 1000 Razorbills, 2000 Puffins, and 2000 Guillemots arrived
to breed; wind S., showers. Aug. 29th, about 2000 Razorbills, 4000
Puffins, and 4000 Guillemots left; wind S.E., clear. Or in other
words, about twice as many left in autumn as came in spring. "These
birds have building cliffs about three miles east of the Cape.
The time of the day they come is not known, nor the directions
in which they come and go. They come in one night, and go in one
night." At Island Ghlais, July 10th, about ninety Puffins, 4 p.m.,
flying S., haze, doubtless a local migration for food; July 11th,
about 200 Puffins, 1 p.m., wind N., flying S.W., clear; July 22nd,
numbers feeding on herring-soil in shore; Aug. 9th, numbers feeding
on herring-soil in shore. At Ushenish, May 30th, numbers passing;
local migration, strong S. wind. At Kyleakin, May 10th, numbers of
Guillemots passing E. all day; strong E.N.E. wind. At Skervuile, July
21st to 27th, Marrots seen. Those seen at Island Ghlais are almost
undoubtedly bred at the Shiant Isles (see former Report, 1879).

_Note,_--I have no return this year from Dunnet Head, owing to the
absence of Mr. Geo. Maclachlan, the new keeper not having sent me
one, which I much regret.

Gulls.--At Cape Wrath, April 12th, 300 "Sea Gulls" arrived here for
breeding on the cliffs below the lighthouse, between 7 a.m. and 8
a.m., wind E., clear; July 12th, from 300 to 800 Sea Gulls leave and
passed to W., between 3 a.m. and 10 p.m., wind E., haze and rain;
April 20th, 200 Kittiwakes arrived; Aug. 29th, 600 Kittiwakes left,
wind S.E., clear. At Island Ghlais, July 22nd, 500 to 600 Gulls and
Kittiwakes, Puffins, &c., feeding, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; wind S., light,
clear; probably from Shiant Isles. (See Mr. Anderson's notes on Gulls
in Mid-Atlantic, under Thrush, _antea_ p. 80). At Sound of Mull, Aug.
13th, 200 Kittiwakes, 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., flying N.W. in flocks of
twenty to thirty; light W. wind, clear. At Rhuvaal, March 1st, about
four dozen, 10 a.m., S.W. wind to gale, rain and sleet; May 1st,
about one dozen, 9 a.m., S.W. wind, clear; Oct. 13th, twelve, flying
S., 7 a.m., variable, light, haze; Nov. 1st, Gulls (and Curlews),
9 a.m., W. wind, clear. At Skervuile, June 8th, one Black-headed
Gull, 9 am., N.W. wind, light breeze, rain, "not often seen here;"
July 17th, "Boatswain Bird," 10 p.m., first seen, also Kittiwakes;
July 21st to 27th, "Boatswain Gulls" seen; Aug. 2nd, great numbers
of ditto seen. At Corsewall, Nov. 1st, one Kittiwake seen, 9.45
p.m.; fresh E. breeze. At Stornoway, July 21st, a flock, apparently
migrating, flying N., 9 p.m., light N.E. wind.

Terns.--At Monach, Aug. 15th to 20th, great flocks were congregating
previous to departure; winds light, clear; and by 20th all were gone,
except a few detained by late young ones (see spring migration,
under Tern). They are also reported to have left the neighbourhood
of Stornoway lighthouse by Aug. 15th. On Aug. 26th, sixteen "Sea
Swallows" arrived at Bahama light-vessel, at 2.20 p.m., in hazy
weather; wind light S.E. by E.

Gannet, _Sula bassana_.--In the same way I give the data as shown in
the schedules. At Cape Wrath, April 14th, 800 to 900 flying E., for
breeding at Souliskerry, from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.; wind E., clear. At
Douglas Head, April 18th, one, light N.E. wind, clear; July 14th to
Aug. 28th, 60 to 900 daily, flying W., 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. _Note._--I
am informed by Mr. Gray that Mr. Anderson traced the Gannet as far
south as the latitude of South Spain, where one day the ship passed
through acres of them; they seemed dead beat, as if after a toilsome
flight during a succession of autumn gales. At Rhu Stoir, July 1st
to Aug. 31st, large flocks going N. daily along the coast, largest
numbers about end of July; generally passing between 7 and 9 p.m.;
none seen going south. At Butt of Lewis, April 13th, three Solan
Geese seen, 9 a.m., the first seen; May 20th to Sept. 15th, increased
daily till May 20th, and then on till middle of September, it would
be impossible to count them from dawn till dusk: they passed in long
strings of fifty to sixty in a flock at not more than a quarter of
hour's interval between the flocks; they all flew west. A number
(about one-fifth of the whole) fly east, and take no notice of the
others in their flight; these are single birds: not one seen after
Oct. 15th. At Island Ghlais, July 12th, 150 Solan Geese "flying S.
and N.," 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., light airs, W., clear; July 13th, 200
"flying S. and N.," 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., fresh N. wind; July 15th to
31st, 1600 to 2000 flying both N. and S., variable; daily average
about 100. (_Note._--The expression "flying S. and N." probably means
_from S. to N._) At Skervuile, March 1st, at 8 a.m., S.W. gale, rain
and sleet; Oct. 26th, last seen 10 a.m., fresh N.E. wind, clear. At
Lochindaul, May 14th, one seen fishing, wind E., clear, dry.

Cormorants.--At Cape Wrath, April 16th, thirty "Scarts" arrived,
10 a.m., E. wind, showers. At Stornoway, Sept. 14th, seven flying
S.W. at noon, light S.W. wind, clear; Sept. 21st, flock of ditto at
2 p.m., light W. wind, flying S.W., raining; Oct. 26th, flock of
ditto flying W., 11 a.m., N. gale, snow; Dec. 24th, flock of ditto
flying S.E., N. wind, fresh, snow. The above probably refer to local
migrations.

Unidentified.--At Portpatrick, between Oct. 7th and 28th, a migration
appears to have gone on at intervals of small birds: thus on the 7th
"flocks of small birds," at 7 a.m., strong N.E. breeze, clear, flying
S.W.; the same on the 14th, flying S.W., in light easterly wind, and
clear; the same on the 15th, flying W., in light S. winds, clear;
the same on the 28th, light N.E. wind, hazy, direction and flight
not noted. Again, flocks of small birds on Dec. 25th, at the same
station, flying E., were observed, in strong N. breeze; and flocks
flew round all day on 26th, in light E. wind, and clear. In August,
on the 25th, at 5.45 p.m., fifty-two (species unknown) seen flying
S.S.W., at Bahama L.V., light E. by S. wind.

General Remarks.

In our general remarks, in 1879, we took notice of the scarcity of
birds at many important stations, such as the Butt of Lewis, Monach
Island, &c. This season shows a considerable increase upon last
year's returns, and the horizontal lines of migration--or rays of
the fan--seem to have spread out wider and reached farther north in
1880 than in 1879; and this increase of observations on the west
coast, be it noted, is irrespective, apparently, of the scarcity
upon our Scottish east coast. We also receive accounts of immense
numbers of birds being seen this season in Mid-Atlantic, the dates
of their appearance there agreeing very accurately with dates of
observations at the land stations. In the 1879 migration the scarcity
was accounted for by the prevalence of N.W. winds deflecting the
lines, and passing down _upon the right shoulders_ (so to speak) of
the passing birds.[19]

[Footnote 19: Even the strong-winged Wild Geese and Swans are
observed when flying well up in the wind to drift to one side a
little, having the appearance of flying _left-shoulder first_ instead
of head first.]

This year the prevailing winds and gales were from east and
north-east, and while these winds do not appear to have compressed
_the horizontal lines so much_ as the north-westerly did in 1879 the
birds appear to have passed at greater elevations, and been borne
away in the gales far out to sea. The migration does not appear to
have come in such great throbs or rushes in 1880 as in 1879, but
to have been more dispersed and more regular; this, no doubt, is a
natural consequence of the waves being more spread out in 1880 than
in 1879. The great easterly gales continuing for weeks together over
the Atlantic and North of Europe, so disastrous to our shipping,
undoubtedly carried many migrants far to the westward, and the
mortality amongst them must have been very great indeed, if we judge
from the few records that have reached us from sea-going vessels.
These easterly gales also have, no doubt, affected the direction of
the migration to a considerable extent, and indications of its agency
may be found in the occurrence on our shores of certain wanderers
from foreign lands, such as the Esquimaux Curlew, on September
21st, in Kincardineshire (_vide_ Zool., 1880, p. 485); a Red-legged
Hobby, on September 20th; a Turtle Dove in Kincardineshire; and
Great Snipes, Great Grey Shrikes,[20] &c., about the same dates
(_loc. cit._). These gales may be said to have continued almost
without cessation during the whole migrating season, all through
September, October, November, and December. In November a new bird
to our British list occurred,--the Desert Wheatear, _Saxicola
deserti_, Ruppell,--as will be found duly recorded by Mr. John James
Dalgleish.[21] It was obtained near Alloa on November 26th. Its
native haunts are far to the southward and eastward, and in North
Africa, Egypt, Persia and India.

[Footnote 20: Unusually abundant in Heligoland.]

[Footnote 21: Proc. Ryl. Phyl. Soc. Edin., 1880-81, vol. vi., p. 64.]

Mr. Cordeaux has already shown to us the apparently abnormal
statistics on the south coast of England, birds crossing towards
England and flying north-west all through the migratory season
between August 16th and December. I am inclined to look upon
these data as indications of the wide-spread waves of the general
migration, extending both farther north and farther south. According
to the amount of pressure at the starting-points [or possibly the
increased area northward occupied in a particularly fine nesting
season, as in 1880] will the wideness of the area be which is passed
over by the migratory flocks. I think the rules known to apply in the
dispersal and extension of range of species are, in some respects,
applicable also to the greater and more extensive waves of migration.

I could say more regarding the peculiarity of nesting sites being
occupied year after year by the same pairs of birds, or of well-known
sites being vacated for a few seasons, and again occupied; or I might
dilate upon some curious statistics of the continuous recurrence of
foreign species at the same localities, or along the same line of
country, but I fear to occupy space with theory only, until we have a
larger accumulation of solid material.

As regards severity of weather apart from winds, unusually early
winter was reported from Scandinavia, it having begun there in
October (_vide_ 'Field,' Oct. 16th, 1880, p. 590).

Attention should be drawn also to the admirable work being done on
the subject of migration by Mr. J. J. Dalgleish (Bull. Nuttall. Orn.
Club), and by Mr. Percy E. Freke (Sc. Proc. Ryl. Dub. Soc, vol. ii.,
n. s., p. 373, and vol. iii., n. s., separate?). These gentlemen also
now propose to colour, or have already finished, maps showing the
distribution of the occurrences of American birds in Europe recorded
in their papers, which cannot fail to be of much service in our work.
We would like to see not only American species mapped out in Europe,
but rare European occurrences in Great Britain.

Finally, in endeavouring to arrive at conclusions regarding the
causes of migrational phenomena in 1880, we have taken into
consideration--1st. The value of the heights of lanterns above the
sea, as against the colour and intensity of lights in 1879; and we
have taken more account of the vertical area of birds' flight in
1880 than in 1879. 2ndly. We have compared the effects of prevailing
north-west winds in 1879 pressing laterally upon the lines of
migration to those of 1880, which being easterly and north-easterly
have had the contrary effect of spreading out the migration again,
or at least has not deflected it to the same extent; and also, the
effect of causing birds to migrate at greater elevations, and, where
the gales have been most severe, to bear them away above the range of
vision and carry vast numbers out to sea, until, weary and exhausted,
they have ceased to be able to guide themselves, and again,
involuntarily, lowered, to be picked up senseless and stunned on
board the ships, or to perish in thousands in the ocean. And lastly
we have hinted at the wideness of the migratory waves depending upon
the pressure at the starting-points, or upon the larger north and
south area occupied in the breeding-season of 1880, besides some
other minor details.




WEST COAST OF ENGLAND.


Forms of enquiry and letters of instruction were sent to thirty-nine
lighthouses and light-vessels on the west coast of England; from
twenty-nine returns have been received; from five, letters mentioning
the scarcity of birds.

The following are the stations from which co-operation was asked,
commencing with the most northerly. Returns have been received from
those marked with an *, and from those marked with a † letters
without returns:--

  110.  †St. Bees: on the Head, L.H. Fixed; visible 25 miles. Robert
           Pizey.
  111.  *Morecambe Bay, L.V.; revolving red light, flash every 30 seconds.
           Fog signal, one blast every 2 minutes. Henry Clavell.
  112.  *Air, L.H.; on the Point. Fixed, visible 9 miles, white, except
           over West Hoyle Bank, between the bearings of S.E. 1/4 S. and
            W. 3/4 S., where it shows red. C. H. Aveston.
  113.   Menai, L.H.; on Trwyn du Point. Fixed, red; visible 9 miles.
           Bell in fog; three times in quick succession every 15 seconds.
  114.  *Skerries, L.H.; Highest Island. Fixed, visible 16 miles. Fog
           signal, one blast every 3 minutes. J. Garrett.
  115.  *Holyhead Breakwater, L.H.; 66-1/2 feet above high water. Red;
           flashes every 7-1/2 seconds; visible 13 miles. Appears as a
           fixed red light at a distance of 3 or 4 miles. Bell in fog
           (three times in quick succession) every 15 seconds. Fog
           horn nearly continuous _when mail packets passing into
           harbour_. Richard Prichard.
  116.  *North Stack, Fog Horn Station, L.H. Bell sounded during fog;
           small white light revolving in 1-1/2 min., occasionally shown
           40 feet above sea and 30 yards N. of S. Stack L.H. Gun
           fired every 10 minutes during fog when mail packets
           approaching. John Harvey, gunner.
  117.  *South Stack, L.H.; on S. Stack rock off N.W. point of Holyhead
           Island; revolving every minute; visible 20 miles. W. R.
           Burgess.
  118.  *St. Judwall, L.H., 151 feet above high water, occulting, light of
           8 seconds duration, followed by eclipse of 2 seconds, white
           and red; also a fixed red light (not occulting) from a window
           16 feet below the high light. William Davies.
  119.  *Caernarvon Bay, L.V.; revolving with white and red flashes at
           intervals of 20 seconds, in order of two white and one red;
           visible 10 miles. Fog signal, one blast every 2 minutes.
           W. Bowen.
  120.  *Bardsey, L.H. Fixed; visible 17 miles. Fog syren one blast every
           5 minutes. Thomas Bowen.
  121.   Cardigan Bay, L.V. Red; revolving every 30 seconds; visible 10
           miles going in.
  122.   Bull Point, L.H. White triple flashes. Fog signal, three blasts
           quickly every 2 minutes. George Knott.
  123.  *South Bishop, L.H.; revolving every 20 seconds; visible 18 miles.
           Gong in fog. John White.
  124.  *Smalls, L.H. Fixed, white; visible 17 miles. Bell sounded during
           foggy weather, and a rocket every half hour. W. Boulton.
  125.  *Great Castle Head, L.H. (2). Fixed, white, 112 and 76 feet above
           high water.
  126.  *Milford (Low), L.H. Fixed, red. G. Baker.
  127.   Milford (High), L.H. Fixed, red, 48 feet above sea.
  128.  *Caldy, L.H., S. of Island. Fixed; visible 20 miles; bright to
           seaward, red in direction of Old Castle Head and Woolhouse
           Shoal. W. Ebben, P. K.
  129.  *Helwick, L.V.; revolving every minute; visible 10 miles. Fog
           horn, blasts of 5 seconds duration at regular intervals of
           2 minutes. Thomas Cornell, mate.
  130.  *Scarweather, L.V.; revolving red, three times a minute, 38 feet
           above level of sea; visible 10 miles. Fog syren, two blasts
           quickly every 2 minutes. Henry Jenkins.
  131.  *Nash (Lower W.), L.H. Fixed; visible 17 miles. John Richards.
  132.  *Nash (E. or high), L.H. Fixed; visible 19 miles; red. Hy.
           Nicholas.
  133.  Breaksea, L.V. Flashing every 15 seconds; 38 feet above sea; fixed
           red light at a lower elevation. Gong in fog.
  134.  *Flatholm, L.H., S. point of Island. Fixed; visible 18 miles.
           W. Dale, P. K.
  135.  *Usk, L.H., W. side of entrance to river. Fixed; visible 11 miles;
           white and red. Amos Russell.
  136.  †Avon, L.H., E. of entrance. Fixed; visible 13 miles; white
           seaward. William Taylor.
  137.  *Burnham, L.H. (2). Upper intermittent; visible 15 miles. Lower,
           fixed; visible 9 miles. William Lewis.
  138.  *Bideford, L.H. (2). Low light visible from half-flood to
           half-ebb, 14 and 11 miles. Leading lights for crossing the
           Bar. Edward Roberts.
  139.   Lundy Fog Gun Station. During fog and thick weather, rocket
           every 10 minutes; explodes at height of 600 feet. John
           Morgan.
  140.  *Lundy, L.H., 1/2 mile from S. end of Island (2), in one tower.
           Upper visible 30 miles, revolving every 2 minutes. Low light
           fixed, only visible between bearings of S. by E. and N.E.
           James Parsons.
  141.  †Hartland Point, L.H., 120 feet above high water; revolving, 30
           seconds, two white and one red. Fog signal, blasts of
           5 seconds duration every 2 minutes. John Griffiths.
  142.  †Trevose Head, L.H., on N.W. extremity (2). Fixed; visible 20 and
           17 miles. W. Bowen.
  143.  *Godrevy, L.H. Flashing every 10 seconds; visible 15 miles. A
           fixed red light in same tower, 27 feet below flashing light;
           visible from S. by E. to S.E. Richard Trahair.
  144.  *Bishop Rock, L.H., on S. W. Rock. Scilly. Fixed; visible 16
           miles. Bell in fog every 10 seconds.
  145.  *Scilly, L.H., St. Agnes, on summit of Island; revolving every
           half-minute; visible 17 miles. E. L. Davis.
  146.  *Sevenstones, L.V. White, revolving. Syren fog signal, three
           blasts quickly every 2 minutes. Daniel Norton.
  147.  *Longships, L.H., on highest rock off Land's End. Fixed; visible
           16 miles. Bell in foggy weather. William Jones.
  148.  †Wolfrock, L.H., 8 miles S.S.W of Land's End, 110 feet above
           high-water mark; revolving alternate flashes of red and white;
           visible 16 miles. In fog a bell. W. D. Crask.

To the Elder Brethren at Trinity House our thanks are due for
their kind permission to make use of the light stations for taking
observations; and to the Trinity Superintendents, Mr. Davison
(Holyhead), Mr. Evans (Weyland), and Mr. Tregarthen (Penzance), we
are obliged for willing assistance.

The observers at the various stations are deserving of thanks for the
pains they have taken to keep an accurate record of the facts coming
under their notice. The reports are all interesting, those which show
a paucity of birds equally with those that record the passing of
many. Excluding the Anatidæ, notes have been taken of about fifty-two
different species.


SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES.

Of the Raptores we have heard but little. A male Falcon (Peregrine?)
was seen at Sevenstones Oct. 13th, at noon, flying S.W., before
a moderate breeze from N.E.; at Smalls, Oct. 7th, a Kestrel was
observed flying round the tower; in Morecambe Bay Oct. 4th, 7.30
a.m., a Sparrowhawk flying from N.N.E., a gentle E.N.E. breeze,
rested on board the light-vessel. At St. Bees a hawk or two, we
are told, may be seen occasionally; "they build on the cliffs
thereabouts."

Owl, _Otus brachyotos_.--At North Stack, Oct. 13th, an Owl, probably
the Short-eared, was seen, at 8.55 a.m., flying S.W., before a mod.
N.E. breeze. At Smalls, Oct 15th, a little Horned Owl was observed
resting on the rock; Nov. 6th, at 4 p.m., another on the S.E. rock.

Fieldfare, _Turdus pilaris_.--Distinguished on one or two occasions;
possibly some of the notes on "Thrush" may refer to this. From Bishop
Rock, Oct. 13th, Fieldfares were seen at 10 a.m. passing W. before a
mod. E. breeze. At Smalls, Oct. 15th, from 1 a.m. to daylight. Grey
Thrushes were noticed, with Redwings, Starlings, and Blackbirds;
breeze gentle to moderate, E.S.E. to S.E. At Air (River Dee), Nov.
7th, "large quantities passed at sunrise."

Song Thrush, _Turdus musicus_.--Recorded from five stations. At
Caernarvon Bay, Oct. 1st, two were killed; hazy. At South Bishop,
Oct. 5th, 10 p.m. to 2 a.m., a mod. N.N.E. breeze, rain and mist.
Thrushes and Blackbirds were passing, and, of the former, seven
killed. At Morecambe Bay, Oct. 8th, 10.20 a.m., one Song Thrush
passed S.S.W., very tired; a strong N.E. breeze. At Nash (E. or
high), Oct. 13th, one was killed; afresh N.N.E. breeze, with mist. At
Bull Point, Oct. 14th, 3 a.m., overcast and misty, light air S.S.W.,
one female is reported as striking. At Caernarvon Bay, Nov. 2nd, a
young Thrush and Lark were killed at 9.10 p.m.; gentle E.S.E. breeze,
hazy. At Bull Point, Nov. 3rd, two struck at 2 a.m.; fresh E. breeze,
clear. At the same time there appears to have been a rush farther
south. At South Bishop, Nov. 2nd, from midnight to morning, a fresh
S.E. breeze, very misty, a very great quantity of Thrushes, with
Blackbirds, Starlings, and Larks, of which many were killed; and,
with breeze still S.E., but moderate, continuous flocks of same all
day flying towards N.E.; Nov. 3rd, from 9 p.m. to midnight, a gentle
E. breeze, rather misty, large quantities, with Larks, Blackbirds,
and Starlings (many killed). At Nash (E. or high), Dec. 1st, one was
killed; fresh W. breeze, but clear. At Godrevy, Jan. 14th, 12 to 4
p.m., Thrushes were seen, with Lapwings and Starlings: this is the
only instance recorded in afternoon, the others being at night, the
weather in most cases misty or hazy, and the wind ranging from N.N.E.
to S.E.

Redwing, _Turdus iliacus_.--Separately noticed at one station
only--Smalls. Oct. 8th, 7.30 p.m., some were seen among Starlings
and Larks, N.E. to E., misty; twenty of the birds killed. Oct. 9th,
from midnight to 5 a.m., several, with Larks and Starlings; eleven
struck; breeze mod. to strong E. to E.N.E., clear. Oct. 15th, from
1 a.m. to daylight, large numbers, with Starlings, Blackbirds, and
Greenfinches. Oct. 29th, one was caught. Nov. 2nd, several, with Sky
Larks, Starlings, and Blackbirds; sixteen struck and were caught.
Nov. 3rd, three males and five females were distinguished among
Blackbirds, Starlings, and Larks. Nov. 5th, one male; mod. N. breeze.
Except the first, the instances occurred from midnight to sunrise,
with moderate N.E., E., and S.E. breezes, and generally with clouds,
mist, or drizzle.

Blackbird, _Turdus merula_.--Reported from ten stations. The earliest
date is Aug. 12th, when one was seen at Scarweather at 1 p.m., mod.
S.S.E. breeze; the latest at Skerries, Dec. 4th, when Blackbirds
and Snipe appeared, and a few were killed. The one occurrence only
is noted in August, and we do not again hear of its appearance till
at Skerries, Sept. 27th, 29th, and 30th, when Blackbirds were seen
(the two later dates in company with Starlings). At Caernarvon Bay,
Oct. 1st, Blackbirds and Thrushes were seen, and two killed; light
westerly breeze, hazy. At S. Bishop, Oct 5th, from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m.,
N.N.E., rain and mist. Blackbirds and Thrushes struck, and seventeen
Blackbirds were killed. At Helwick, Oct. 8th, one was killed. At
Caldy, Oct. 10th, one male was discerned flying about the lantern;
a mod. E. by S. gale, squally and cloudy. At Bull Point, Oct. 12th,
two females struck, but were not killed; a mod. E. breeze, clear;
and, on Oct. 14th, one female. At S. Bishop, Oct. 13th, nine were
killed, with five Larks. At Helwick, Oct. 14th, one and a Linnet.
At. Smalls, Oct. 15th, numbers struck, with Starlings, Thrushes, and
Finches; and, at Godrevy, two, with two Starlings and one Thrush,
not killed. At Helwick, Nov. 2nd, several killed, with Larks and
Starlings; and, from midnight to morning at S. Bishop, a fresh S.E.
breeze and very misty, a very great quantity of Blackbirds, Larks,
etc. (see Song Thrush). At Godrevy, Nov. 3rd, one struck, not killed.
At Smalls, Nov. 2nd, two were seen at midnight; 3rd and 5th six (two
males and four females), and one female. At Nash (E. or high), Dec.
1st, one was killed. At Skerries, Dec. 4th, a few. The time of the
occurrences noticed, except of the three in report, which were at
sunrise, was from midnight to morning, and they took place almost
always in cloudy or misty weather, with generally a mod. breeze more
or less easterly, _viz._, N.N.E., through E. to S.S.E. The greatest
number of instances noticed is in October, when we have returns from
seven stations, but the birds are only seen by ones or twos; they
seem to have appeared in numbers from Nov. 1st to 3rd; in December we
have only two instances.

Then the _Turdidæ_ have been noticed from Morecambe Bay (from St.
Bees we have the general remarks that an occasional Blackbird or
Thrush is to be seen) to Godrevy. The movement appears to have been
pretty evenly distributed, perhaps to have spread gradually from N.
to S., and to have lasted from Aug. 12th to Jan. 14th, being most
active from Sept. 27th to Nov. 27th, with a decided rush on Nov. 2nd
and 3rd. The direction of flight is seldom given, the notices almost
all referring to birds killed or striking. The greatest slaughter
occurred at S. Bishop on Nov. 1st, when, of Blackbirds, Thrushes,
Larks, and Starlings, 162 were immolated, and on Nov. 3rd 172. The
time when the occurrences were observed lies between twilight and
sunrise, but is chiefly about midnight, the weather being generally
hazy, misty, or overcast, with mod. breezes from E.N.E. through E.
to S.E. In the majority of instances the birds were accompanied by
others of their own family, or by Starlings or Larks.

Stonechat, _Saxicola rubicola_.--At Morecambe Bay, Aug. 29th, 4 p.m.,
moderate breeze E. by S., one came on board. The note is added that
it is "very seldom Seen here." This is the only occurrence noted.

Wheatear, _Saxicola ænanthe_.--At Bishop Rock, Aug. 17th, 1.30 a.m.,
three struck the glass, light E. breeze, cloudy; Aug. 22nd, midnight,
mod. E.S.E. breeze, cloudy and misty, Wheatears strike; none killed
on either occasion.

Chiffchaff and Goldcrest, _Sylvia hippolais_ and _Regulus
auricapillus_,--At Scarweather, July 30th, 1 p.m., a Goldcrest was
seen. At Flatholm, Oct. 14th, a large quantity of Goldcrests and
Chiffchaffs were seen at 9.40 a.m., gentle E. breeze, blue sky, but
clouds and mist. Mr. Dale reports that, at this station, "These
little birds generally make their appearance about the beginning of
October, and remain till about the middle of November. In spring
again, from about March 20th to May. Numbers are killed by striking
the lantern on dark nights."

Titmouse, _Parus cæruleus_.--At Burnham, Aug. 16th, 3 p.m., mod.
N.N.E. breeze, "a large flock of Blue Tits perched on the trees, &c."
At Caldy, midnight, a Titmouse (species not identified) was seen
flying about the glass.

Wagtail, _Motacilla_ (sp. ?)--Returns only from Morecambe Bay. Aug.
26th, 6.15 a.m., one alighted on deck; 27th, 7 a.m., one passed E.,
and at 8.30 a.m. one E.N.E.; 30th three, and 31st six passed; Sept.
1st two were seen, and on 4th six; 12th, one passed W., a gentle
breeze W.S.W.; 16th, five, S.E., a strong breeze from N.; 27th,
flocks, with Linnets, were observed during the forenoon, a light
breeze S. by W., and several small birds killed. These occurrences
all happened between 5 and 8.30 a.m. In almost every case the weather
was cloudy, misty, or foggy, with gentle breezes, varying, but mostly
E.S.E. or easterly. The direction of flight S.E. and E.S.E.

Sky Lark and Meadow Pipit, _Alauda arvensis_ and _Anthus
pratensis_,--On two occasions the Meadow Pipit is distinguished;
possibly some of the notes on "Larks" may refer to it. From Morecambe
Bay, Sept. 8th, 6 a.m., four Titlarks are reported flying S.W., a
gentle breeze E.N.E. From Smalls, Nov. 3rd, mod. E. breeze, one
was seen in company with Blackbirds and Redwings. Of Larks, the
earliest appearance noted is Aug. 27th, when, at Morecambe Bay,
seven passed flying S. by E., light E.S.E. breeze; Sept. 1st, 5.30
p.m., about thirty passed Nash, flying S., a gentle W.N.W. breeze;
and on 3rd, at noon, about twenty passed N., light E.S.E. breeze.
These occurrences are noticed from both stations. At Caernarvon,
Sept. 4th, one was killed. At Lundy, Sept. 9th, a number, with
Chaffinches, were seen, fresh E.S.E. breeze, rain and squally;
these were noticed from both stations. At Scarweather, same day, two
were seen. At Morecambe Bay, a dozen passed flying S. At Skerries,
Sept. 23rd, 9.30 to 11 p.m., many Larks and Linnets were striking,
but none killed. At Scarweather, Sept. 24th, mod. W. breeze, a large
number of Larks. From the two stations at Nash, Sept. 25th, a large
flock of Sky Larks were observed passing N.E. At Skerries, Sept.
26th and 27th, Larks were seen. At Caernarvon, Sept. 29th, 9.15
a.m., a flock passed S.E. At Caldy, same day, 10 p.m., two male Sky
Larks and a White Gull were flying about the lantern, light S.E.
breeze, fog. At South Bishop, Sept. 30th, four larks were killed,
fog. Through September they appear, as the month advanced, to have
been noticed in greater numbers and farther south. The appearances
are nearly all in the daytime; breezes light or gentle, varying from
W. through S. to E. Direction of flight, when noticed, towards S.
or S.E., except at Nash, where, on Sept. 3rd, some passed N., and
on 25th some N.E. At Godrevy, Oct. 4th, 1 to 2 a.m., mod. E.N.E.
breeze, a Lark, Petrel, and two foreign Wrens were seen, and three
birds killed. At Nash, Oct. 5th, 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., continuous flocks
passed S.E., with mod. E.N.E. breeze, and rain; the same direction
followed, though wind veered round to W.S.W. At Helwick, Oct. 8th,
2 a.m., one was killed, strong E.S.E. breeze, rain and lightning.
At Smalls, same date, 7.30 p.m. to midnight, continuous flocks of
Sky Larks, Redwings and Starlings, and about twenty struck; 9th,
midnight to 5 a.m., Sky Larks and Redwings, eleven struck, mod. to
strong E. to E.N.E. breeze, clear. At Nash, Oct. 10th, a flock of
Sky Larks was observed from both stations flying N.W., strong N.E.;
breeze; 13th, with mod. E.N.E. breeze, a like flock going E. At
South Bishop, Oct. 13th, 1 to 4 a.m., light S.E. air, clouds and
mist, five Larks and nine Blackbirds met their fate. At Smalls, Oct.
12th, about thirty struck the roof (with Starlings) from 1 a.m. to
daylight; and at Skerries, at intervals during same day, small flocks
were seen passing towards the land. At Morecambe Bay, same day,
about 10.20 a.m., a flock of Larks passed S.S.W. At Helwick, Oct.
15th, 4.30 a.m., several Larks and Starlings were seen. At Morecambe
Bay, Oct. 16th, 2.30 p.m., a flock passed E.N.E. At Caernarvon Bay,
Oct. 19th, 1 to 4 p.m., continuous flocks passed E.S.E., fresh E.
by N. breeze. At Helwick, Oct. 21st, gentle N.E. breeze, a flock
from S.W. to N.E. At Caernarvon, Oct. 22nd, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., mod.
E. gale, with haze, flocks of Larks and Starlings passed S.E.;
24th, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., similar flocks passed S.S.E., with a mod.
N.N.W. breeze. At Helwick, Oct. 30th, 11 a.m., light N.N.E. breeze,
"several hen Larks" passed from S.W. to N.E. At South Stack, same
day, 7 a.m. to noon, fresh N.W. breeze, clear, continuous flocks
(with Starlings, Linnets, and Chaffinches) passed to N.W. Throughout
October the movement appears to have been active and pretty general
along the coast; the time of occurrence in the greater number of
cases between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.; the direction of flight, when
recorded, generally easterly; in most instances mist, rain and fog,
with--generally--moderate E.N.E. to E. breezes. At Morecambe Bay,
Nov. 1st, five passed S.E., mod. N.N.E. breeze; 2nd, three in same
direction, mod. S.E. breeze. At South Bishop, from midnight to the
morning of 2nd, fresh S.E. breeze, very misty, "a very great quantity
of Larks, Thrushes," &c., and "continuous flocks" all day, flying
towards N.W.; 3rd, 9 p.m. to midnight, enormous quantities, &c. (see
"Song Thrush.") At Caernarvon, Nov. 2nd, 9.10 p.m., a young Lark was
killed, gentle E.S.E. breeze, hazy; 3rd, 1 to 4 a.m., still hazy,
two Larks killed. At Helwick, Nov. 2nd, 1 p.m., fresh S.E. breeze,
"a flock of hen Larks" passed to N.E., and at 8 p.m., several more,
of which some were slain; overcast and misty. At Nash (W. or low),
Nov. 14th, noon, flights of Sky Larks and Starlings passed overhead,
strong W.S.W. breeze, clouds and mist. These are all the instances
reported in November; most of them occurred at night, and, being of
birds striking, the direction of flight is not recorded; the winds
generally moderate and from E. to S.E.; on every occasion with mist,
haze, or fog. After Nov. 14th we have no record till Dec. 3rd, when
flocks of Larks passed Skerries at midnight, gentle S. breeze, misty.
At Scarweather, Dec. 8th, 11 p.m., two Larks, mod. W.N.W. breeze,
gloomy and misty. At Lundy, same day, S.W. breeze, a great number of
Sky Larks were seen, and Mr. Parsons adds, "these are seen daily,"
but for how long is not stated. At Caernarvon L.V., Dec. 13th, 2 to 5
a.m., four young Larks were killed, mod. N. by W. breeze, drizzling
rain. At Milford, Jan. 11th, a quantity of Larks, Plovers, and
Starlings arrived and remained all day. At South Stack, Jan. 12th,
strong N.E. breeze and passing showers of snow, continuous flocks
of Larks and Starlings passed all day; and on 13th, a large quantity
was on the island all day. This is the latest instance recorded. In
all, we have returns from fifteen stations, of which all but Milford
and the two at Nash are off the coast. The direction of flight,
judging from the instances given, seems to have been chiefly towards
S.E. and S. (this would be towards the mainland). The chief movement
seems to have been from Sept. 9th to Nov. 3rd, and increasing towards
November. In the majority of cases, with the breeze moderate, from E.
to S.E. and S.; in some from N. and N.E. to E.; generally with mist
or gloom.

Yellowhammer, _Emberiza citrinella_.--At Morecambe Bay, Oct. 12, five
passed about midnight, flying S.S.W., gentle breeze from N. to N.E.
by E.

Chaffinch, _Fringilla cœlebs_.--At Lundy, Sept. 9th, 1 p.m., a great
number, with Sky Larks, fresh E.S.E. breeze, rain. At Smalls, Oct.
25th, mod. W. breeze, till midnight, some struck and fell overboard;
three and a Starling caught. At South Stack, Oct. 30th, fresh N.W.
breeze, flocks, with Starlings, Larks and Linnets, passed flying N.W.

Mountain Sparrow, _Passer montanus_.--This species is distinguished
only in the returns from North Stack. Sept. 24th, 8.40 a.m., a flock
passed S.W.; 26th, 2.30 p.m., with mod. S.W. breeze, a flock passed
N.W.; Oct. 12th, 8.40 a.m., two flocks flying N.E.; 15th, 7.30 a.m.,
six passed S.W., mod. S. breeze; Dec. 24th, 3.10 p.m., fresh N.W.
breeze, thirty passed E.; Jan. 12th, 2.30 p.m., a flock passed S.W.,
before a strong N.E. breeze, with snow.

Common Sparrow, _Passer domesticus_.--At Nash, Sept. 27th, 6 a.m.,
a flight passed N.N.W. (observed from both stations), light N.E.
breeze. At North Stack, Dec. 3rd, 11 a.m., a flock of Sparrows was
seen flying N.E., against a mod. S.W. breeze.

Greenfinch, _Coccothraustes chloris_.--At Smalls, Oct. 15th, 1 a.m.
to daylight, many struck the roof, along with Starlings, Blackbirds,
&c., mod. E.S.E. to S.E. breeze, misty; Nov. 5th, before sunrise,
mod. W. breeze, cloudy but clear horizon, two males and one female
were caught alive, together with Thrush, Blackbird and Starling.

Linnet, _Linota cannabina_.--From the two stations at Lundy we learn
that, from 8th Sept., a great many Linnets "mixed" have been seen
daily, and on Oct. 30th have left the island. The earliest recorded
is Sept. 1st, when at Skerries, 9 p.m. to 3 a.m., fresh S.W. breeze,
clear, small flocks appeared with Finches, many strike, and a few
are killed; 23rd, 9.30 to 11 p.m., mod. S.W. breeze, clear after
fog, small flocks with Larks, many strike, but none are killed. At
Morecambe Bay, Sept. 17th, 7 a.m., four Grey Linnets pass S.E., mod.
N.W. by W. breeze; 21st, noon, nine going N., light S. by W. breeze,
misty; and on 27th, during the forenoon, fog, flocks of Linnets and
Wagtails pass, and several small birds are killed. At Caldy, Sept.
24th, some Linnets were seen. At Smalls, Oct. 29th, one was caught
with a Redwing, fresh N.E. breeze, cloudy but clear horizon. At South
Stack, Oct. 30th, 7 a.m. to noon, fresh N.W. breeze, Linnets, Larks,
Starlings, and Chaffinches passed in flocks to N.W. From Godrevy, we
hear from Mr. Trahair that "several flocks of Green and Red Linnets
come on the island from September to latter part of December."

Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_.--We have more notices of this bird
than of any other. Its occurrence seems to have been general and
frequent. Twenty-two stations have reported on it, besides St. Bees,
whence Mr. Pizey writes, "An occasional Starling or Lark may be
sometimes seen on the lantern-window"; and Trevose Head, where, Mr.
Bowen states, "Starlings and Crows can be observed all the year;
they build their nests about the cliffs." The earliest date given
is July 24th, where, at Scarweather, 11 a.m., a flock was observed,
clear, with breeze from E.N.E. This, however, is the only occurrence
noticed till Aug. 29th, when, at Sevenstones, a large flock passed
S.W. at 5.20 a.m., fog, light N.N.E. air. The next date is Sept.
10th, when, at Nash, a large flock passed overhead at 6 p.m., fresh
S.W. breeze. From this date several instances occur in the Bristol
Channel, but it is Sept. 28th before we hear from a station as
far north as Skerries. The occurrences then become frequent and
general along the coast, increasing to Nov. 3rd, after which they
gradually decrease in numbers and frequency till Jan. 14th, when,
at Godrevy, a great number, in company with. Lapwings, Thrushes,
&c., were seen from noon to 4 p.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze, and clear
horizon. The greatest number of individuals are recorded from Oct.
16th to 21st, and again Oct. 29th to Nov. 3rd; we have the greatest
number of occurrences noted in November, and especially from 1st
to 3rd. In September we have returns from six stations, Flatholm to
Skerries. The flight when noticed being (except in one instance) in
daylight--mostly from sunrise to about 11 a.m. Direction of flight
scarcely ever noticed. Wind various, generally light, and never
exceeding a fresh breeze; weather in some cases clear, but more
generally overcast to misty. The next date, after 10th, is Sept.
17th, when, at Flatholm, fresh W.N.W. breeze, a small flight appeared
and remained on the island till 19th; 22nd, from both stations at
Nash, a flock of young Starlings is reported as flying N.E., fresh
W. breeze, misty; 23rd, a flock of Starlings, mixed, was seen at
North Stack, light N.W. breeze, drizzly rain; 24th, continuous flocks
were seen from Flatholm; after this no further occurrence is noted
in Bristol Channel till Nov. 1st. At Skerries, Sept. 28th, 29th, and
30th, Starlings were seen at sunrise, light W.S.W., S.E. and N.E.
breezes. Throughout October we have constant notices. At Morecambe
Bay, Oct. 1st, two flocks of young, mixed, passed S.W., light W.N.W.
breeze. At Nash, Oct. 3rd, continuous flocks all day passed N.,
against a light N. to N.E. breeze; and at Flatholm, 3.30 p.m., mod.
N. breeze, blue sky but cloudy, there was a small flight, and _four
old birds were killed_. At Caldy, Oct. 4th, 8 a.m., strong E. by S.
breeze, about twenty were seen (first appearance). At Lundy, Oct.
6th, strong E. breeze, rain, a great number appeared and were seen
daily till 29th, after which only one or two seen. At Smalls, Oct.
8th, 7.30 to midnight, fresh N.E. to E. breeze, misty. Starlings,
Redwings, and Sky Larks passed in continuous flocks (about twenty
struck). At Morecambe Bay, Oct. 10th, one seen; 11th, one passing
S.E. very tired, fresh E. by N. breeze. On 11th, we first hear of
them so far south as Scilly, where Starlings and Woodcocks passed
at 8.30 a.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze; and on 12th, at Bishop Rock,
Starlings at 10 a.m. These, however, are the only instances recorded
from these two stations. At Smalls, Helwick, and Caldy respectively,
during the nights of Oct. 14th, 15th, and 16th, several struck and
many were killed. At Caernarvon, Oct. 16th, "continuous flocks of
Starlings and Spinxes" (?) passed during the day, gentle S.S.W.
breeze, and hazy. At South Stack, Oct. 17th, 6.30 a.m., light E.
breeze, a very large flock passed. At Morecambe Bay, Oct. 21st, 5.20
p.m., gentle E.N.E. breeze, clouds but clear horizon, two to three
hundred passed W.N.W. At Caernarvon Bay, Oct. 22nd, mod. E. gale,
hazy, a flock with Larks passed S.E.; and on 24th, during the day,
similar flocks S.S.E.; wind now mod. and from N.N.W. At Flatholm,
same day, 8 a.m., gentle E.N.E. breeze, small flights appeared and
remained till Oct. 26th, at 7.30 a.m., when they departed S.W.,
fresh W.S.W. breeze, cloudy. At South Stack, Oct. 29th, 7 a.m.,
fresh N.N.E. gale, clear, very large flocks passed; 30th and 31st,
fresh N.W. breeze, continuous flocks passed to N.W. At Sevenstones,
Oct. 30th, 3.30 p.m., light E. air, clear, several flocks were seen
flying to W. and N.E. At Nash, Nov. 1st, 9 a.m., gentle N.N.E.
breeze, clear, a flock of Crows and Starlings passed overland. At
Smalls, same day, from sunset to midnight, three were seen about the
lantern. At Morecambe Bay, Nov. 2nd, 4 p.m., from two to three dozen
passed, flying S.; and at the same hour, at Helwick, a flock of male
Starlings passed, flying from S.W. to N.E., and at 8 p.m. several
were killed. At Longships, 7 p.m., a few fluttered against the glass;
at Caldy, 10.30 p.m., one was noticed flying about the lantern; at
Godrevy, 11 p.m., four struck, several others hovering around; and at
Smalls, before midnight, mod. E. breeze, misty and drizzling, eight
were seen with other birds. At South Bishop, from midnight (of 1st),
when they first arrived, till morning, a very great quantity, with
Thrushes, &c.; and all day after, continuous flocks of same flying
towards N.W. Again, on the 3rd, enormous quantities of Starlings came
at midnight (of 2nd) and continued till morning, and at 6 a.m. the
Starlings began to fly E. At Caernarvon also, Nov. 3rd, nine young
Starlings were killed, gentle E.S.E. breeze, hazy; and at Smalls,
before sunrise, twenty-three female and four male Starlings, among
Blackbirds and Thrushes, were counted; several struck and went
overboard. At Nash, 9 a.m., large flights passed overland, with
Crows; and at Godrevy, 2 a.m., two, with Thrushes and Blackbirds,
struck. Thus there appears to have been a decided "rush" lasting from
Oct. 29th, 7 a.m., to Nov. 3rd, 9 a.m. From Nov. 1st to 3rd alone,
we hear from no less than eleven stations. It was on the 2nd and
3rd that the slaughter, already mentioned (see "Song Thrush"), took
place at South Bishop, and Starlings were numbered among the slain.
On Nov. 6th, eight were killed at Lundy, many others striking; and
after this we have almost daily returns from the two stations at
Nash, of flights, the direction, when noticed, being overland. At
Helwick, Nov. 15th, a flock passed N.E. At Bull Point, Nov. 18th, a
flock was seen flying E. At Godrevy, Nov. 29th, mod. S.W. breeze,
clear, a flock flying S. Throughout December we have almost daily
returns from Nash, of flights passing overland (on 10th and 25th
they are noticed as passing S.) At Godrevy, Dec. 2nd, 5 to 8.30
p.m., light S.S.W. breeze, misty, seventeen male and female, mixed,
struck. At Caernarvon Bay, Dec. 16th, 1 to 4 a.m., strong W.N.W.
breeze, three killed; 27th, 9 to 11 p.m., gentle E. by N. breeze, two
young Starlings were killed; 28th, 9 a.m. to 11 p.m., gentle N.N.E.
breeze, misty, flocks passed, flying N.W.; and on 31st, between 10
and 11 p.m., strong N.W. by N. breeze, misty, three were killed and
fell overboard. At Lundy, Dec. 25th, fresh N.N.W. breeze, clear, a
great many Starlings came on the island during the night. At Nash,
Jan. 7th, 2 a.m., fresh E. breeze, misty, several struck; 11th, 10
a.m., misty, some seen with flocks of Plovers and Peewits. At Milford
(Low), same day, a quantity with Plovers and Larks arrived, and
remained all day. At South Stack, Jan. 12th, fresh N.E. breeze, with
passing showers of snow, a large quantity of Starlings and Larks, old
and young, passing all day; 13th, on the islands all day. At Godrevy,
Jan. 14th, noon to 4 p.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze, clear, a great number
with Thrushes and Lapwings were seen.

Chough, Hooded Crow and Rook, _Fregilus graculus_, _Corvus cornix_
and _Corvus frugilegus_.--From Caldy Mr. Ebben reports, "The Chough
breeds upon the island, and never goes away." We do not hear of it
from any other station. The Hooded Crow is only once distinguished,
but may perhaps be referred to under the general style of "Crow,"
the Rook being sometimes distinguished by that of "Black Crow." At
S. Stack, Oct. 22nd, 11.30 a.m., fresh E. breeze, clear, a flock
passing to N.W. Of the Rook or, indeed, of Crows generally, the first
appearance noted is Sept. 9th, when "Black Crows" were seen at Caldy,
9 a.m., a strong breeze E. by S., misty. At N. Stack, Sept. 12th,
6 p.m., three Black Crows flying N.E., before a mod. S.W. breeze;
19th, 5.20 p.m., four passed S.E., a fresh N.W. breeze; 24th, 9 a.m.,
ninety were seen flying E., before a strong W. breeze. From this
station we have no further record till Dec. 20th. At Nash, Sept.
10th, 3 p.m., about 100 Rooks passed N.; 13th, from the low station,
hundreds were seen flying overland; 22nd, 9 a.m., a flight of young
Rooks, Starlings and Jackdaws flying N.E., fresh W. breeze; 24th, at
noon, a flock passing S.E.; 30th, 3 p.m., from both stations we hear
of a flight passing N.E.; Oct. 2nd, 2 p.m., fresh N. breeze, misty,
large flock of Crows pass S.W.; the only instance reported from Nash
for October. At Morecambe Bay, Oct. 3rd, 5.30 p.m., fifteen common
Books passed, flying E.N.E., fresh N.E. breeze; 5th, same hour, mod.
gale E. by N., overcast, misty and rainy, twelve going E.S.E.; 10th,
11 a.m., fresh E.N.E. breeze, two passed S. by E. At Bull Point,
Oct. 12th, 7 a.m., fresh E. breeze, two dozen Black Crows, old and
young, seen flying W., before fresh E. breeze; only record of a W.
direction of flight. The next occurrence dates Nov. 1st and 3rd, 9
a.m., when, at Nash, large flights, with Starlings, passed overland.
We next hear, on 13th, of similar flights flying overland at noon; a
fresh W. gale, mist and showers. From the low station (only) we have
like returns on 20th, 24th, 25th, and 28th, 29th, 30th, between 9
a.m. and noon, winds various, clouds or mist. There are no returns
from any other station. At the same station, Dec. 1st to 10th, 9
a.m., mod. breezes, more or less W., overcast and misty, like flights
overland. At Holyhead, Dec. 16th, 9 a.m., flights of Black Crows
passed E. across the bay, against a strong E. breeze. On Dec. 18th,
from both stations at Nash, and on 20th, 23rd and 25th, from the low
stations (9 a.m.), flights of Crows and Starlings are reported; winds
various, generally mist. On Dec. 25th, the high station reports such
a flock passing S. at the same hour, fresh E. breeze, clear; and on
28th, 30th and 31st, same hour, with breezes from W.S.W., E. and N.,
overcast, showery or misty, flights of Crows and Starlings were seen
from both stations. At N. Stack, Dec. 20th, 9.5 a.m., a flock passed,
flying E., fresh N.W. breeze; 30th, 2.15 p.m., a flock flying S.E.,
fresh N.W. breeze. This is the latest return. Besides Caldy and Nash,
in the Bristol Channel, the returns are from four stations off the
coast, _viz._:--Bull Point, N. Stack, Holyhead, and Morecambe Bay.
The direction of flight is from E.N.E. through E. to S.E. At Nash
the direction seems to vary greatly, but is mostly reported as being
"overland."

Common Wren, _Troglodytes vulgaris_.--At Scarweather, Aug. 10th, one
was found in the morning lying dead on deck, W.N.W. breeze. At Nash
(W. or low), Sept. 8th, in the early morning, one struck; mod. N.E.
breeze, clouds and mist. At Smalls, Sept. 14th, 1 a.m. to daylight,
gentle E. breeze, overcast, but clear horizon, a Wren, Starling and
Larks struck; and on 15th, about same time, gentle breeze, E.S.E. to
S.E., Blackbirds, Starlings, Thrushes, Greenfinches, and Wrens, a
large number striking the glass, but very few the roof.

Swallow, _Hirundo rustica_.--Earliest notice, Aug. 31st, from Caldy,
as also the latest, Nov. 11th, "when Swallows disappeared." At Caldy,
Aug. 31st, Swallows seen from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m., N.N.E. to N. wind,
blue sky, but clouds; Sept. 5th, mod. W.S.W. breeze, about twenty;
and on 17th, at noon, W. wind, a few noticed. At Nash (E. or high),
Sept. 15th, large flocks passed E., a strong N. breeze and rain; and,
the note added, "not seen after this date"; 21st, 26th and 30th,
Swallows are reported from Caldy, with various winds, not strong,
and generally with clouds and mist. At Morecambe Bay, Sept. 24th,
mod. W. breeze, cloudy, but clear, two dozen were seen flying S.E. At
Caernarvon Bay, Sept. 25th, mod. S.W. breeze, clear, a flock flying
S.W. At S. Bishop, Sept. 28th, light N.E. air, twenty were seen. In
October we have only two dates. At Godrevy, Oct. 12th, 1 p.m., a
small flock hovering about the island, fresh N.E. breeze, clear; and
at Helwick, 4.30 p.m., fresh E.N.E. breeze, misty, a flock passed,
flying from S.W. to N.E. At Caldy, Oct. 18th, Swallows seen. The
eight stations reporting give each but a solitary instance, except
Caldy. Five of the stations are off the coast; the remaining three
in the Bristol Channel. The direction of flight is not once reported
from Caldy. When from the other stations reported it is S.E. or S.W.,
except at Helwick, N.E.; Oct. 12th, at 4.30 p.m. This would be the
course to the nearest land.

Swift, _Cypselus murarius_.--At Flatholm, Sept. 15th, 10 a.m., mod.
W.N.W. breeze, clouds, but clear horizon, a large flight appeared; on
16th, they disappeared.

Golden Plover, _Charadrius pluvialis_.--Earliest record Sept. 5th,
when, at Caldy, two Plovers were seen; mod. W.S.W. breeze. The next
occurrence noted is at Scilly, Oct. 4th, Plovers and Lapwings; mod.
E.S.E. gale, rain. At Nash (E. or high), Oct. 14th, fifteen or
twenty; 21st, a large flock passed W.; Nov. 20th, 10 p.m., six flew
round the light several times. We have no further record till from
both stations at Nash, Jan. 3rd, several were observed flying W.;
10th, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., gentle N.E. breeze and mist, flocks of
Plovers and Peewits, overland, passed S.W. Also, at Scilly, 4 p.m.,
Plovers and Lapwings; and on 11th, calm and misty, flocks of Peewits
and Starlings passed N.W. At Milford (Low) a quantity of Plovers,
Larks and Starlings arrived, and remained all day. From Bardsey we
hear that, on Feb. 11th, flocks of four or five Golden Plovers were
seen flying about the Island; fresh N.E. gale. Except at Nash, Nov.
20th, and Scilly, Jan. 10th, these occurrences were all noticed from
8 a.m. to 11 a.m., and on every occasion with mist or rain, and with
light or gentle E. breeze (except at Caldy, W.S.W.). The direction of
flight, recorded only from Nash (E. or high), is W., except on Jan.
10th, S.W., and 11th, N.W.

Lapwing, _Vanellus cristatus_.--Earliest notice at Sevenstones, Aug.
26th, 10 a.m., fifty were seen flying to S.W., light N.W. breeze,
haze. The next is dated at Scilly, Oct. 4th, Lapwings and Plovers
were seen at noon, a mod. E.S.E. gale, rain. We next hear from
Caldy, Nov. 3rd, when one was seen flying near the light; a strong
E. breeze, mist. Another space of time, and at Nash, Nov. 21st (E.
or high), 8 a.m., a large flock is seen overland, mod. E. breeze;
and at Burnham, 8 a.m., large flocks of Peewits were noticed flying
from N., light N. breeze, mist. We do not again hear till Dec. 20th,
when, at Lundy, a number of Lapwings were seen at 9 a.m., mod. E.N.E.
breeze; and the other Lundy station reports, "about thirty came on
the island during the night." Again, on the 30th, Mr. Parsons notes a
flock came on the island the night previous. At Skerries, Dec. 29th,
light S.E. breeze, misty, rain, a few Lapwings about all night. This
is the only record from a station further N. than Bristol Channel. At
Nash (E. or high), Jan. 3rd, gentle E. breeze, mist, a large flock
of Peewits passed W.; 6th, a similar flock, N.W.; 10th, during the
day misty, light N.E. breeze, flocks of Peewits, with Plovers, passed
overland S.W.; and on 11th, at 10 a.m., misty and calm, flocks,
with Starlings, passed N.W. At Scilly, same day, 4 p.m., Lapwings
and Plovers were seen. At Sevenstones, Jan. 11th, two large flocks
passed W.; a light W.N.W. breeze, hazy. At Godrevy, Jan. 14th, we
first hear of a great number seen during the day, with Starlings,
Thrushes, &c.; fresh E.S.E. breeze, clear, frost, and a little snow
on the ground. Of the nine stations reporting, Nash has the most
instances; the greater numbers occur in January. The direction of
flight when noticed, from N.W. through W. to S.W., the wind, except
at Sevenstones, being from N.E. and E.S.E., but more generally E.;
force, mostly two to five.

Sanderling, _Calidris arenaria_.--At Godrevy, Sept. 10th, 11.30 p.m.,
two were killed; light S.W. breeze, clear horizon.

Oystercatcher, _Hæmatopus ostralegus_.--At Air, Aug. 6th, a large
quantity seen about 1 p.m., gentle E.S.E. breeze, mist; Oct. 4th, a
large quantity flying E. throughout the day, light S.E. breeze, mist;
Oct. '29th, 10.30 a.m., with mod. N. gale, clear, a similar flight E.
From Bideford, Sept. 1st, we have the following record:--"Hundreds
of Sea-pies, Common Gulls, Curlews, and a few Shags, visit the
mussel-beds all the winter, being seen every day and night from
half-ebb to half-flood, coming from N.W. in all weather."

Heron, _Ardea cinerea_.--From Helwick only have we any record, Sept.
26th, 6 a.m.: "A flock flying from S. to N.W."; cloudy, but clear
horizon, with light W. breeze.

Bittern, _Botaurus stellaris_.--Of this now rare bird we have a
solitary instance. At Godrevy, Jan. 14th, two were seen during the
day (with numbers of Lapwings, Starlings, and Thrushes); may they
live long and be happy!

Curlew and Stint, _Numenius arquata_ and _Tringa_ (sp. ?).--At Air,
earliest date Aug. 9th, 10 p.m., clear and calm, a large quantity
passed; and Godrevy, Jan. 11th, the latest. At Noon, Aug. 14th, three
were seen at Bishop Rock. At Bideford, Sept. 1st, some seen, and
thereafter daily, with hundreds of Sea-pies and Gulls, from N.W. At
Usk, Sept. 8th, we hear of their appearance, when through the day
they were seen in great numbers with Gulls, E. and N.E. breezes;
10th, mod. S. breeze, they were observed through the day with Gulls
and "Pearls" (_Tringa ? minuta_) in great numbers; 17th, from 5
a.m. to 9 a.m., W.N.W. to N.W., two; they appeared in very large
flocks; and from Sept. 24th, to Oct. 8th. At Morecambe Bay, Sept.
12th, 6.30 p.m., one was seen flying S. against a moderate breeze.
At Nash, Sept. 15th, 9 a.m., two passed N.E., strong N. breeze and
showers; 18th, 6 p.m., two passed N.W., before a mod. N.W. gale,
showery (these are noticed from both stations). At Skerries, Sept.
26th, light S.W. breeze, Curlews were seen at sunrise. At Air, Oct.
4th, a large quantity going E. all day; misty Through November and
December we hear from Usk of large flocks (with numbers of Stints).
At Skerries, Dec. 4th, 1 a.m., light S. air, misty and rain. Curlews
were seen with Blackbirds and Snipes; 20th, a few all day, mod.
W.S.W. breeze, fine; 29th, light S.E. breeze, mist and rain, a few
all night. At Nash, also on 29th, 4 p.m., four passed W., mod. N.
breeze, drizzle. The only record subsequent to this is from Godrevy,
Jan. 11th, 9 a.m., when four were seen on the island, light E.S.E.
breeze and mist; and Mr. Trahair adds, "they frequent the shore
after the breeding-season." Most of the instances were noticed in
the daytime; the winds various; but in the Bristol Channel, where
recorded (Nash and Usk), from N. to W.N.W., force, four to six; while
off the coast (Morecambe, Air, and Skerries), E.S.E. through S. to
W.S.W., and light.

Woodcock, _Scolopax rusticola_.--At Lundy, Nov. 19th, 10 a.m., from
both stations, four Woodcocks and three Snipes were seen, mod. N.E.
breeze, clear; and Mr. Parsons adds, "one has been seen once or
twice since." At Scilly, Oct. 11th, 8.30 a.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze.
Woodcocks and Starlings appeared. At Nash (E. or high), Jan. 14th, at
noon, two passed W., with five Wild Geese, before a mod. E. breeze,
mist. At Bardsey, Jan. 20th, gentle E. breeze, with snow; one struck.

Snipe, _Scolopax gallinago_.--At Nash (E. or high), Oct. 24th, 9
a.m., two were seen flying W.; gentle N.E. breeze, misty. From the
two stations at Lundy, Nov. 19th, three Snipes and four Woodcocks
were seen. At Skerries, Dec. 4th, 1 a.m., light S. air, misty and
rain. Snipes and Blackbirds were seen, and a few killed.

Corn Crake, _Crex pratensis_.--At Burnham, Aug. 14th, at mid-night, a
Land Rail was killed; light N. breeze, clear horizon.

Water Rail, _Rallus aquaticus_.--At Smalls, Oct. 15th, one was seen
on the rock.

Wild Goose, _Anser ? palustris_.--At Scilly, Sept. 26th, 7 a.m.,
calm and cloudy, nineteen were seen. We hear no more till Nov. 3rd,
when, at Helwick, 11 a.m., one was seen passing from S. to N., mod.
E.N.E. breeze; and on Nov. 6th, about the same hour, a flock passed
from S.W. to N.E., mod. N.W. breeze, drizzly rain and showers. At
Morecambe Bay, Nov. 23rd, 9.30 a.m., two flying S.E., strong S.
breeze. At Scarweather, Nov. 10th, 4 p.m., fresh N.W. by W. breeze,
four were seen. There is no return for December. At Nash (E. or
high), Jan. 2nd, 9.30 a.m., two passed W.; and on 14th, at noon, five
and two Woodcocks passed W., mod. E. breeze. At Hartland Point, Jan.
5th, a few were seen flying E. At Sevenstones, Jan. 11th, 4.15 p.m.,
light N.N.W. breeze, haze, several flocks passed, flying to westward.

Sheldrake, _Tadorna vulpanser_.--At Air, March 21st, 1880, at
sunrise, mod. S.E. breeze, clear, about forty-five pairs. Mr. Aveson
adds, "they arrive annually for breeding."

Wild Duck, _Anas boschas_, _Oidemia nigra_.--Returns from eleven
stations. In some few instances the "Black Duck," probably the Common
Scoter, is separately distinguished, _viz._:--At Morecambe Bay, Sept.
5th, 6.15 a.m., five flying W., mod. W.S.W. breeze, mist; Oct. 1st, 9
a.m., light W. air, gloomy, misty, six flying W.S.W. At Scarweather,
Sept. 20th, 6 p.m., fresh N.W. by N. breeze, four were seen; Nov.
25th, 3 p.m., mod. W. gale, two passed up N.E.; 30th, 10 a.m., gentle
S. breeze, four were seen. At Burnham, Dec. 21st, 9 a.m., light
N.N.W. breeze, flocks of the Black Surf Duck were seen on the water.
In the other cases the species are not distinguished. The earliest
date given is Sept. 18th, when, at Morecambe Bay, 3 p.m., seven Wild
Ducks passed E., strong W.N.W. breeze; 27th, 7 a.m., six passed N.;
29th, same hour, three passed W., calm and fog. At Caernarvon, Oct.
6th, strong E.N.E. breeze. Wild Ducks passed N.N.E. At Godrevy, Oct.
8th, fresh E. breeze, clear, two flocks of Ducks and Mallards passed
W. during the day; 10th, 7.15 a.m., wind from same quarter, one
flock, S.W. At Nash (E. or high), Oct. 26th, 7 a.m., fresh E. breeze,
two passed W. Throughout November the notices are more frequent. At
Caernarvon, Nov. 1st, 10.40 p.m., fresh N.W. breeze, hazy, one was
killed. At Morecambe Bay, 2nd, 7 a.m., one passed S.E. against a
mod. S.E. breeze; slight fog. At Helwick, 4th, 8 a.m., gentle N.E.
breeze, two flocks passed from S.W. to N.E.; 8th, about same hour,
one Wild Duck passed to S.W., mod. N.E. and N. breeze. At Morecambe
Bay, 9th, same horn-, strong W. by S. breeze, nine passed going N.;
18th, same hour, fresh E. by N. breeze, four going S. From Lundy,
we hear on 18th, 7 and 8 a.m., three Wild Ducks (one male and two
females) seen with Teal. At Smalls, 19th, fresh E.N.E. breeze, two
Grey Ducks from N.W. to S.E. At Helwick, 22nd, 2 p.m., fresh S.E.
breeze, clouds and mist, a flock passed from S.E. to N., fresh S.E.
breeze, clouds and mist; Dec. 4th, strong S.W. breeze, twenty passed
S.E.; 17th, from Holyhead Breakwater, hundreds of Wild Ducks were
seen in the bay during the day. At Godrevy, same day, two flocks of
Ducks and Mallards passed S.W. and W. before a fresh E.N.E. gale,
which moderated and veered round to N.N.E.; Jan. 6th, 10.30 a.m.,
strong E. breeze, mist, a flock passed W. At Nash, Jan. 2nd, large
flocks passed S.W.; 13th, 4 p.m., and 14th, 8 a.m., gentle E.N.E.
breeze, mist, a flock passed W. At Milford, 11th, five or six Ducks
passed, going more inland. At Bardsey, 13th, scattered flocks of Wild
Ducks, about seven in number, crossing from mainland, N.N.E. wind,
four; March 18th, 1881, 1.30 a.m., S.S.W. wind, four, three Ducks
and one Drake Widgeons are reported. Thus in September we hear only
from Morecambe Bay, and one instance of Black Ducks from Scarweather.
In October the occurrences are more frequent and general, and the
numbers greater; the direction of flight, except at Caernarvon
Bay on the 6th, being W. or S.W., and the wind E. In November the
most instances are recorded, but the numbers of individuals appear
smaller; the direction of flight is N.E., S.E., N., or S., the winds
varying, but more generally N.E., E., or S.E. In December we have
two dates: the 4th, when twenty passed at Scarweather; 17th, at
Godrevy, two flocks were seen; and at Holyhead, hundreds in the bay.
In January we hear from Godrevy, Nash, Milford and Bardsey of flocks
passing. The direction of flight in December and January is generally
S.W. or W., in calm, or E. or E.N.E. breezes. The occurrences (except
the last) are all noticed from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m., and most about 8
a.m. In almost every instance it is misty, foggy, or gloomy.

Teal, _Anas crecca_.--At Godrevy, Sept. 27th, 10.15 a.m., light
S.S.W. breeze, mist, a flock flying N.E.; Oct. 21st, 2 p.m., a flock
flying E. against a mod. E. breeze. At Lundy, Nov. 18th, one male and
two females are reported from both stations; mod. E. breeze, clear.

Guillemot and Razorbill, _Uria troile_ and _Alca torda_,--We hear
from Lundy that, on Nov. 21st, numbers of Guillemots and Razorbills
came in during the night, and remained during the day; and on the
25th a great many came in during the night, and left in the morning.
On Dec. 25th we have the same return as on Nov. 21st; and Dec. 28th,
10 a.m., strong W.S.W. breeze, a great many came during the night. At
Godrevy they are reported to be generally seen about.

Cormorant, _Phalacrocorax_.--At Bull Point, Dec. 21st, light S.S.W.
breeze, one (species not identified) flying W., and low to the water.
Mr. Roberts reports that, at Bideford, "a few Shags visit to feed
on the mussel-beds all the winter"; and, at Godrevy, Mr. Trahair
says, "the Cormorant, or Shag and Large Gull(?), resort all the year
round." At Trevose Head they are reported as residents of the cliffs
all the year round.

Gannet, _Sula bassana_.--At Morecambe Bay, earliest notice Aug.
26th, one flying N.N.W. before a mod. E.S.E. breeze. At S. Stack,
during August and September, a great many were seen passing from
N.E. to S.W. At Caernarvon Bay, Sept. 9th, fresh S.E. breeze, two
flying S.; and on 11th, mod. W. by S. breeze, two flying S.; 25th,
one flying W.S.W., mod. S.W. breeze: these occurrences noted about
10 a.m. in clear weather. At Helwick, Sept. 19th, 6.30 a.m., one
male flying W., fresh W.N.W. breeze. At Sevenstones, Sept. 28th,
light E.S.E. breeze, gloomy, eight, mixed, flying to N.E. At Helwick,
Oct. 4th, 6.40 a.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze, gloomy, two flying S. to
N.E. No further occurrences are reported till Nov. 20th, when, at
Scarweather, two passed up S.E., mod. N.E. breeze; and on 21st, with
S.E. breeze, four passed S.E.; 27th, strong W. breeze, seven passed
in different directions; Dec. 6th, two passed N.E., mod. W.N.W.
breeze; 12th, four N.E., a fresh W.N.W. breeze. These instances all
occurred in the daytime. Mr. Trahair reports that, at Godrevy, "from
middle of December to middle of January several about, not flying
in any particular direction"; and, again, "a great number of sprats
about,--the Gannets appear to be after them,--more so than on the
coast, through the influence of the weather."

Tern, _Sterna_ (? sp.).--At Air, Oct. 12th, a large quantity of Sea
Swallows seen, mod. N.E. breeze, gloomy, clear; the same on Oct.
12th, gentle E. breeze.

Gull, _Larus argentatus_, _L. canus_, _L. tridactylus_.--From S.
Stack we hear that, on Aug. 10th, Gulls left after breeding. At
Bideford, Sept. 1st, hundreds of common Gulls are reported as coming
every day (presumably from this date) from N.W., with Sea-pies and
Curlews, from half-ebb to half-flow. At Bishop Rock, Sept. 6th, in
calm weather and clear, a "Mackerel Bird" (? young Kittiwake) struck
(11 p.m.), but was not killed; and on 7th, 1.30 a.m., another struck.
At Usk, from Sept. 7th to Oct. 8th, large numbers of Gulls (on one
occasion three varieties) seen, with Curlews and Stints. At Caldy,
Sept. 9th, Grey Gulls seen; 10th, about a hundred Gulls, with the
note, "Bred on the island, and constantly passing." At N. Stack,
Sept. 11th, fourteen (six males and eight females) flying S., mod.
S.W. breeze. At Nash, Sept. 13th and 20th, 6 p.m., from both stations
large flocks were seen passing W., with fresh W. and W.N.W. breeze.
At N. Stack, Sept. 17th, twenty-five (thirteen males and twelve
females) are reported as flying N.E., before a strong S.W. breeze;
25th, a flock flying S., mod. S.W. breeze. At Caldy, Sept. 29th, 10
p.m., one White Gull appeared; fog and light S.E. breeze. Except Usk,
the only notices in October are from Nash, where at both stations,
on five or six occasions, flights of Gulls and young Gulls were seen
passing N. or N.W.; wind various, but more or less easterly. At
Caernarvon Bay, Sept. 30th, 4.15 p.m., a flock passed E.S.E., with
strong S.W. by W. breeze. We have no return in November. In December
one occurrence alone is noted:--At Nash (E. or high), Dec. 16th, 10
a.m., four passed N., fresh E.N.E. breeze; Jan. 9th, a small flock
of Gulls passed N. At Bull Point, Jan. 11th, 4 p.m., twenty-six Grey
Gulls passed, flying S.W., rather high; mod. N.W. breeze, cloudy,
squally, and snowy. At St. Bees, Mr. Pizey, speaking of the scarcity
of birds, says, "Even the Common Gull only makes an appearance just
before heavy weather, or in following the plough, and then in but
small numbers." From Godrevy Mr. Trahair reports, "Very few Skua
Gulls (Lestris) observed this season."

Petrel, _Thalassidroma pelagica_.--At Godrevy, Sept. 28th, 9 p.m.,
one struck, fog, light S. breeze; Oct. 4th, from 1 to 2 a.m., mod.
E.N.E. breeze, one was seen with a Lark and Wrens. Mr. Trahair adds,
"Breeds on the island, most plentiful in July; never seen in daytime,
except among loose stones, where they breed."

*Dotterel, _Charadrius morinellus_.--Reported to be seen at Smalls,
every day from October to January, with various Gulls.

Besides the above, we have a few instances of birds unknown, of
which, perhaps, the most puzzling is reported from Longships,
Sept. 8th, midnight, mod. S.S.E. gale, misty, with showers, "one
strange bird, the shape and size of a Starling, pattern and hue of
a Partridge, with its legs covered over with stiff feathers." At
Godrevy, Oct. 4th, two foreign Wrens (? Goldcrests) killed, with
Lark and Petrel. At Skerries, Oct. 13th, 16th and 17th, flocks of
small birds passed during the day, flying E. At Smalls, Oct. 26th,
before sunrise, birds unknown passed; Nov. 3rd, before sunrise,
continuous flocks were flying round the light, three struck and fell
overboard, mod. E. breeze, cloudy, but clear horizon. At N. Stack,
Nov. 12th, 7.35 a.m., fresh W. breeze, cloudy, two flocks of birds,
name unknown, flying N.E.; 26th, 3 p.m., mod. S.W. gale, drizzling
rain, fifty grey birds passed, also flying N.E. On Jan. 16th, we hear
from Longships, that at 8.15 a.m., gentle W. breeze, cloudy, but
clear horizon, "flocks of small birds were noticed at sunrise passing
westward, leaving the land, upon a change of weather from a sharp
frost and snow, and a change of wind from E. to W."

The stations are not all equally favourably situated for observing,
and a general scarcity of birds is reported from the following:--St.
Bees, Mr. Pizey writes that, for over five years that he has been
there, he has remarked "the extreme scarcity of birds of any sort As
for flocks of birds I have never witnessed them here, an occasional
Robin, Blackbird or Thrush being all the variety we see Common
Sparrows few in number." Mr. G. Knott says, "very few birds are seen
at Bull Point." From Flatholm and Usk we hear "very few land-birds
are seen, and at the former only Gulls, and they in the three winter
months alone." "The lighthouse at Avon is so close to the docks and
village that no birds come to the light "; and that at Burnham,
having "only four panes facing west, does not attract many birds."
"The land-birds to be seen in the immediate neighbourhood of Trevose
Head are very scarce." From Wolf Rock Mr. Crask writes, "Hardly ever
any birds come nigh us but Gulls, which come by thousands after fish;
the only others ever seen being Starlings, and these few and far
between."

Some stations report a marked scarcity during the past, in comparison
with other years. Thus, from Holyhead, Mr. Prichard writes, "Being
a very mild winter have not seen anything of note; not a bird
striking this winter." At Bardsey the inhabitants say they "never
observed so few birds before;" and Mr. Bowen suggests that "the
fog-horn sounding may prevent birds striking." With respect to this
we hear from Skerries that "few birds have been seen since they had a
fog-horn." At Morecambe, Caernarvon, and other stations where there
are fog signals, however, we hear of birds striking or killed. At St.
Judwalls the entire absence of Starlings for the whole winter was
remarked. (Pigeons were seen here from second week in May to first
week in August.) From Nash it is reported that "during November and
December sea-birds were very scarce, and all birds singularly scarce
at latter end of October, and extremely so during the nights both
of September and October; and, again, all sea- and land-birds have
been more scarce during the nights of the present winter than ever I
recollect" (John Richards). Mr. Nicholas attributes it to the very
mild winter. From Smalls we hear that during December no birds were
seen about the lighthouse. From Hartland Point Mr. Griffiths writes,
that "for twenty-five years he had always seen and caught birds, but
not this year; nor have any struck, as in other years." At Burnham
(Aug. 14th) and at Usk (September) a Land Rail only bird killed.

Concerning the circumstances under which birds strike, the returns
bear out the conclusions expressed in last year's report, that dark
or cloudy nights, with fog, haze or rain, are most hazardous. Three
or four exceptional instances are recorded of striking in daylight.
October and November appear to be the most dangerous months, and
South Bishop the most deadly station. Mr. T. Bowen writes, from
Bardsey, that "birds strike in general with the wind; without, very
rare exception." Mr. Crask, from Wolf Rock, in reply to a question on
which side they strike, writes, "when they strike the lantern it is
generally N.W." Other stations have not noticed.

Of the species reported on, the Starling has received by far the most
notice; and next come Larks, Crows, Wild Ducks, Gulls, Thrushes,
&c. Possibly some of the notices may refer to local migrations, or
movements from one feeding-ground to another.

The notices of the _Anatidæ_ are all in the daytime. The direction of
their flight (seldom recorded) is, sometimes, directly N. and S.;
but, to judge merely from the few recorded instances, the prevailing
direction at the following stations is N. or north-easterly--towards
the land: Caernarvon, Helwick, and Scarweather. At Smalls it appears
to be, towards the Bristol Channel, S.E. At Nash, Godrevy and
Sevenstones it is W.; while at Morecambe Bay it varies very greatly.
The lines followed by the _Insessores_ are difficult--with data
supplied by one year only--to make out, but seem to be towards the
mainland or along the coast. The following are the chief instances
where the direction is reported as being from the land:--South Stack,
Oct. 29th, 30th, 31st, Starlings flying N.W.; Bull Point, Oct. 13th,
Black Crows flying W.; South Bishop, Nov. 2nd, Blackbirds, Larks,
Starlings and Thrushes flying N.W.; Scilly, Oct. 13th, Fieldfares
flying W.; and at Wolf Rock, Jan. 16th, and Sevenstones, Jan. 11th,
two large flocks of Lapwings flying W.

The returns seem to support the conclusion expressed in last year's
report as to birds preferring to migrate with a "beam" wind, or even
a point or two abaft of beam.

       *       *       *       *       *

Erratum.--Page 65, line 3, for N.E., read N.W.

[Transcriber Note: This correction has been applied.]

WEST, NEWMAN AND CO., PRINTERS, 54, HATTON GARDEN, LONDON, E.C.



       *       *       *       *       *


Transcriber Note

Minor typos were corrected. Some station tables split by a page break were
rejoined.








*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS IN
THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1880 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
